skip to main content

<#main-content>
KALW logo <http://kalw.org/>
Site Menu <#> Donate

<https://donate.nprstations.org/kalw/>

  * Menu <#>

  * HOME

    <http://kalw.org/>
  * PROGRAMS

    <http://kalw.org/programs>
      o


                  back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o PROGRAMS <http://kalw.org/programs>
      o On-Air Schedule

        <http://kalw.org/schedule/kalw>
      o Programs A-Z

        <http://kalw.org/programs>
      o Podcasts

        <http://kalw.org/subscribe>
      o Program Guide PDF

        <http://mediad.publicbroadcasting.net/p/kalw/files/201610/KALW_FALL_2016.pdf>

      o Printable Program Grid

        <http://mediad.publicbroadcasting.net/p/kalw/files/201610/KALW_FALL_2016_Center.pdf>

  * CROSSCURRENTS

    <http://kalw.org/programs/crosscurrents>
      o


                  back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o CROSSCURRENTS <http://kalw.org/programs/crosscurrents>
      o Crosscurrents

        <http://kalw.org/programs/crosscurrents>
      o • Audiograph

        <http://kalw.org/programs/audiograph>
      o • Bay Area Beats

        <http://kalw.org/term/bay-area-beats>
      o • The Bridge

        <http://kalw.org/programs/bridge>
      o • Cannabis News Roundup

        <http://kalw.org/term/cannabis-news-roundup>
      o • Hey Area

        <http://kalw.org/programs/hey-area-you-ask-we-answer>
      o • Litography

        <http://kalw.org/term/litography>
      o • San Quentin Prison Report

        <http://kalw.org/term/san-quentin-prison-report>
      o • Spiritual Edge

        <http://kalw.org/term/spiritual-edge>
      o • StoryCorps

        <http://kalw.org/topic/storycorps>
      o • The Stoop

        <http://kalw.org/programs/stoop>
      o • Today's Local Music

        <http://kalw.org/term/local-music>
  * YOUR CALL

    <http://kalw.org/programs/your-call-2>
  * MUSIC & ARTS

    <http://kalw.org/programs>
      o


                  back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o MUSIC & ARTS <http://kalw.org/programs>
      o LOCAL MUSIC PLAYER

        <http://kalw.org/local-music-player>
      o Africa Mix

        <http://kalw.org/programs/africa-mix>
      o A Patchwork Quilt

        <http://kalw.org/programs/patchwork-quilt>
      o Bluegrass Signal

        <http://kalw.org/programs/bluegrass-signal>
      o Blues Power Hour

        <http://kalw.org/programs/blues-power-hour>
      o Explorations in Music

        <http://kalw.org/programs/explorations-music>
      o Fascinatin' Rhythm

        <http://kalw.org/programs/fascinatin-rhythm>
      o #FSFSF Comedy

        <http://kalw.org/programs/FSFSF>
      o Fog City Blues

        <http://kalw.org/programs/fog-city-blues>
      o Folk Music & Beyond

        <http://kalw.org/programs/folk-music-beyond>
      o Liner Notes

        <http://kalw.org/programs/liner-notes>
      o Music from Other Minds

        <http://kalw.org/programs/music-other-minds-kalw-0>
      o Music from the Hearts of Space

        <http://kalw.org/programs/music-hearts-space>
      o My Mixtape

        <http://kalw.org/topic/my-mixtape>
      o Open Air

        <http://kalw.org/programs/open-air-0>
      o Record Shelf

        <http://kalw.org/programs/record-shelf>
      o Revolutions Per Minute

        <http://kalw.org/programs/revolutions-minute>
      o Sights & Sounds

        <http://kalw.org/programs/sights-sounds>
      o Sound Opinions

        <http://kalw.org/programs/sound-opinions>
      o Tangents

        <http://kalw.org/programs/tangents-kalw>
      o Thistle & Shamrock

        <http://kalw.org/programs/thistle-shamrock>
  * ABOUT

    <http://kalw.org/about-kalw>
      o


                  back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o ABOUT <http://kalw.org/about-kalw>
      o Community calendar

        <http://kalw.org/community-calendar>
      o Contact us

        <http://kalw.org/contact-us>
      o Directions to our studios

        <http://kalw.org/directions-our-studios>
      o Financial information

        <http://kalw.org/node/710>
      o History & mission

        <http://kalw.org/about-kalw>
      o Online community expectations

        <http://kalw.org/community-expectations#stream/0>
      o Our people

        <http://kalw.org/people/capacity/staff>
      o Work with us

        <http://kalw.org/work-us#stream/0>
  * SUPPORT

    <https://donate.nprstations.org/kalw/>
      o


                  back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o SUPPORT <https://donate.nprstations.org/kalw/>
      o Donate Now

        <https://donate.nprstations.org/kalw/>
      o Sustaining Membership

        <http://kalw.org/sustaining-membership>
      o Employer Matching Gifts

        <http://kalw.org/employer-matching-gifts>
      o Stock Donations

        <http://kalw.org/stock-donations>
      o Vehicle Donation

        <http://kalw.org/vehicle-donation>
      o Agent Match Me

        <http://kalw.org/agent-match-me>
      o Volunteer

        <http://kalw.org/volunteer>
      o KALW's Wish List

        <http://kalw.org/wish-list>
  * SEARCH

    <http://kalw.org/search/google>

Listen Live KALW
Fog City Blues
NEXT: 11PM Your Call re-broadcast
KALW
Fog City Blues

  *
    KALW
    Fog City Blues
    <http://live.str3am.com:2430/> 

  * Menu <#>

  * HOME

    <http://kalw.org/>
  * PROGRAMS

    <http://kalw.org/programs>
      o


                  back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o PROGRAMS <http://kalw.org/programs>
      o On-Air Schedule

        <http://kalw.org/schedule/kalw>
      o Programs A-Z

        <http://kalw.org/programs>
      o Podcasts

        <http://kalw.org/subscribe>
      o Program Guide PDF

        <http://mediad.publicbroadcasting.net/p/kalw/files/201610/KALW_FALL_2016.pdf>

      o Printable Program Grid

        <http://mediad.publicbroadcasting.net/p/kalw/files/201610/KALW_FALL_2016_Center.pdf>

  * CROSSCURRENTS

    <http://kalw.org/programs/crosscurrents>
      o


                  back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o CROSSCURRENTS <http://kalw.org/programs/crosscurrents>
      o Crosscurrents

        <http://kalw.org/programs/crosscurrents>
      o • Audiograph

        <http://kalw.org/programs/audiograph>
      o • Bay Area Beats

        <http://kalw.org/term/bay-area-beats>
      o • The Bridge

        <http://kalw.org/programs/bridge>
      o • Cannabis News Roundup

        <http://kalw.org/term/cannabis-news-roundup>
      o • Hey Area

        <http://kalw.org/programs/hey-area-you-ask-we-answer>
      o • Litography

        <http://kalw.org/term/litography>
      o • San Quentin Prison Report

        <http://kalw.org/term/san-quentin-prison-report>
      o • Spiritual Edge

        <http://kalw.org/term/spiritual-edge>
      o • StoryCorps

        <http://kalw.org/topic/storycorps>
      o • The Stoop

        <http://kalw.org/programs/stoop>
      o • Today's Local Music

        <http://kalw.org/term/local-music>
  * YOUR CALL

    <http://kalw.org/programs/your-call-2>
  * MUSIC & ARTS

    <http://kalw.org/programs>
      o


                  back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o MUSIC & ARTS <http://kalw.org/programs>
      o LOCAL MUSIC PLAYER

        <http://kalw.org/local-music-player>
      o Africa Mix

        <http://kalw.org/programs/africa-mix>
      o A Patchwork Quilt

        <http://kalw.org/programs/patchwork-quilt>
      o Bluegrass Signal

        <http://kalw.org/programs/bluegrass-signal>
      o Blues Power Hour

        <http://kalw.org/programs/blues-power-hour>
      o Explorations in Music

        <http://kalw.org/programs/explorations-music>
      o Fascinatin' Rhythm

        <http://kalw.org/programs/fascinatin-rhythm>
      o #FSFSF Comedy

        <http://kalw.org/programs/FSFSF>
      o Fog City Blues

        <http://kalw.org/programs/fog-city-blues>
      o Folk Music & Beyond

        <http://kalw.org/programs/folk-music-beyond>
      o Liner Notes

        <http://kalw.org/programs/liner-notes>
      o Music from Other Minds

        <http://kalw.org/programs/music-other-minds-kalw-0>
      o Music from the Hearts of Space

        <http://kalw.org/programs/music-hearts-space>
      o My Mixtape

        <http://kalw.org/topic/my-mixtape>
      o Open Air

        <http://kalw.org/programs/open-air-0>
      o Record Shelf

        <http://kalw.org/programs/record-shelf>
      o Revolutions Per Minute

        <http://kalw.org/programs/revolutions-minute>
      o Sights & Sounds

        <http://kalw.org/programs/sights-sounds>
      o Sound Opinions

        <http://kalw.org/programs/sound-opinions>
      o Tangents

        <http://kalw.org/programs/tangents-kalw>
      o Thistle & Shamrock

        <http://kalw.org/programs/thistle-shamrock>
  * ABOUT

    <http://kalw.org/about-kalw>
      o


                  back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o ABOUT <http://kalw.org/about-kalw>
      o Community calendar

        <http://kalw.org/community-calendar>
      o Contact us

        <http://kalw.org/contact-us>
      o Directions to our studios

        <http://kalw.org/directions-our-studios>
      o Financial information

        <http://kalw.org/node/710>
      o History & mission

        <http://kalw.org/about-kalw>
      o Online community expectations

        <http://kalw.org/community-expectations#stream/0>
      o Our people

        <http://kalw.org/people/capacity/staff>
      o Work with us

        <http://kalw.org/work-us#stream/0>
  * SUPPORT

    <https://donate.nprstations.org/kalw/>
      o


                  back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o SUPPORT <https://donate.nprstations.org/kalw/>
      o Donate Now

        <https://donate.nprstations.org/kalw/>
      o Sustaining Membership

        <http://kalw.org/sustaining-membership>
      o Employer Matching Gifts

        <http://kalw.org/employer-matching-gifts>
      o Stock Donations

        <http://kalw.org/stock-donations>
      o Vehicle Donation

        <http://kalw.org/vehicle-donation>
      o Agent Match Me

        <http://kalw.org/agent-match-me>
      o Volunteer

        <http://kalw.org/volunteer>
      o KALW's Wish List

        <http://kalw.org/wish-list>
  * SEARCH

    <http://kalw.org/search/google>

Related Program: 
Crosscurrents

<http://kalw.org/programs/crosscurrents>


  "Street Spirit" and the power of pocket change

By Mary Rees <http://kalw.org/people/mary-rees> /•/ Jun 28, 2016
Related Program: 
Crosscurrents

<http://kalw.org/programs/crosscurrents>
Tweet

<http://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.tinyurl.com%2Fjqhyjkd&text=%22Street%20Spirit%22%20and%20the%20power%20of%20pocket%20change>Share

<http://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.tinyurl.com%2Fjqhyjkd&t=%22Street%20Spirit%22%20and%20the%20power%20of%20pocket%20change>Google+

<https://plus.google.com/share?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.tinyurl.com%2Fjqhyjkd>Email

<mailto:?subject=%22Street%20Spirit%22%20and%20the%20power%20of%20pocket%20change&body=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.tinyurl.com%2Fjqhyjkd>

  *
    Alando Marcell Williams displays the June issue of Street Spirit.

    <http://mediad.publicbroadcasting.net/p/kalw/files/styles/x_large/public/201606/picpic.png>

    Alando Marcell Williams displays the June issue of Street Spirit.
    Mary Rees

<http://cpa.ds.npr.org/kalw/audio/2016/06/WEB.HomelessProfile.mp3>
Listen
Listening...
/ 4:52

/You’ll find homeless vendors selling the Street Spirit newspaper in
front of grocery stores, restaurants and post offices across the East Bay. /

//

/The Berkeley Bowl Marketplace on Oregon Street is a favorite location.
KALW’s Mary Rees spoke with regular vendor Alando Marcell Williams.
Click the player above to hear the story, or read the transcript below.  /

ALANDO MARCELL WILLIAMS: [to passer-by] Small donation, sir, towards the
Street Spirit today? Anything would be appreciated.

My name is Alando Marcell Williams; I’m from Berkeley, CA.

I been selling Street Spirit over eight years now. It’s stopped me from
going in and out of jail; I don’t go to jail no more. And helped me,
provide me with food, clothing, and meet a lot of different people, good
people.

A lot of times I wake up with no money; I take one of these papers,
might bring me $50, might bring me $100, might bring me three dollars.
Something better than nothing any day; that’s why I love this paper.

One day I was here and a guy walked up to me and said, “How much is a
paper?” I said, “Whatever you want to donate, sir.” He walked in, came
back out with a cup of coffee, went in his top pocket and gave me three
100-dollar bills and said, “Have a nice day.” You find good people like
that out here.

[to passer-by] A little help today? Excuse me, sir.

Sometimes the police come and ask us, “Do you have your badge? Did you
leave your badge at home? Well, I’ll take your money and papers and give
you a citation.”

[to passer-by] How you doing, man?

PASSER-BY:  Oh, hanging in there.

WILLIAMS: I’m hanging like wallpaper, too.

PASSER-BY: That’s all I got.

WILLIAMS: All right, thanks a lot, man.

A lot of these people I done seen around, and I know. Familiar faces and
old friends. People that come up here, know I’m up here; they see, me
talk with me, ask me how I’m doing.

I grew up on Dwight Way and McGee; I went to Berkeley High. Got a
baseball scholarship to play for the Oakland A’s, and then after my mom
had got murdered, I had a nervous breakdown from there. I didn’t have no
one to turn to, because I was the oldest out the bunch. My grandmother
and my grandfather, that’s her mother and her father, they was up in
age. They took custody of me and my brothers, when they was up in age,
so they passed away. After that, I had a nervous breakdown. I went to
Napa Hospital for four years, four and a half years. Still didn’t have
no one to turn to, so I started using drugs. From drugs to prison. Out
of prison back to drugs.

I kept angry. That’s why I stayed up in prison a lot. I asked them, “Why
did they do that to my mom, take my mom from me and my brothers?”

I’m not on drugs no more; I’m good with saving money. Just keep it in my
pocket, just buy the things I need.

Sooner or later, God could provide me with a place, ‘cuz He know I mean
well.

They gave me a spot, told me to come down — I was on G.A. [general
assistance] — bring proof of income, Social Security card, so I did all
that. So they said, “Ah well, you get to move in next week, Mr. Williams
— I mean, next month, Mr. Williams! The place will be ready for you next
month.”  So about a week before I’m ready to move in, they called me
back down to the office; they had gave me the keys and everything. They
said, “Oh, you have to give the keys over.” I said, “Why is that?”  “We
did a criminal background check on you.” So… they said, “Well, appeal
it!” I just was kinda upset and just said, “Forget them people.”

[to passer-by] Little gift today towards the Street Spirit? Any donation
would be appreciated.  All right, you have a good day, man.

I’m just that type of person. I got a good heart, and if you say, “No,”
I can understand it, I can respect it.  If you say, “Yeah,” fine with
me. I just gotta keep on keeping my head up, and keep smiling.

I might just have seven to eight papers, and, I run out of papers, I
panhandle. And they still give us donations. Sometimes I don’t need
papers to make money. Depends on how you present yourself to a person.
Some people call it begging, but I don’t call it begging. No, if you got
a heart, and your heart feel free to give up some, that’s good. If you
don’t, oh well.

I love this. This my job; I wouldn’t give it up for nothin’ in the world.

Tags: 
homeless <http://kalw.org/term/homeless>
street spirit <http://kalw.org/term/street-spirit>
Tweet
<http://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.tinyurl.com%2Fjqhyjkd&text=%22Street%20Spirit%22%20and%20the%20power%20of%20pocket%20change>Share
<http://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.tinyurl.com%2Fjqhyjkd&t=%22Street%20Spirit%22%20and%20the%20power%20of%20pocket%20change>Google+
<https://plus.google.com/share?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.tinyurl.com%2Fjqhyjkd>Email
<mailto:?subject=%22Street%20Spirit%22%20and%20the%20power%20of%20pocket%20change&body=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.tinyurl.com%2Fjqhyjkd>

  * © 2016 KALW

