  * About Castro Valley Matters

    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/about-us/>
      o Board of Directors

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/board-of-directors/>
      o About the Blog

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/about-the-blog/>
      o Join Castro Valley Matters

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/civicrm/?page=CiviCRM&q=civicrm/contribute/transact&reset=1&id=1>
      o Donate to Castro Valley Matters

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/civicrm/?page=CiviCRM&q=civicrm/contribute/transact&reset=1&id=2>
  * Blog Roll

    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/blog-roll/>
      o Local Control

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/castro-valley-local-control/>
      o Governance

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/castro-valley-governance/>
      o Economic Development

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/castro-valley-economic-development/>
      o Public Safety

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/castro-valley-public-safety/>
      o Education

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/castro-valley-education/>
      o Valley Voices

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/valley-voices/>
  * Upcoming events

    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/events/>
  * Civic Toolkit

    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/toolkit/>
  * Elected MAC

    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/elected-mac/>
  * Join CVM Today!

    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/civicrm/?page=CiviCRM&q=civicrm/contribute/transact&reset=1&id=1>

Castro Valley Matters

<http://castrovalleymatters.org/>

Engage, Inform, Promote, and Advocate for a Better Castro Valley


  SF Homeless Project: Castro Valley Creek homeless community, my neighbors

June 29, 2016 by Michael Kusiak
<http://castrovalleymatters.org/author/mkusiak/> 1 Comment
<http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/06/29/cvcreek-homeless/#comments>

/Castro Valley Matters is participating in the SF Homeless Project
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/>, an effort by over 70 Bay
Area organizations to tell stories of homelessness in San Francisco and
the Bay Area./

The Castro Valley Creek is a sudden burst of natural beauty sandwiched
between suburban strip malls, an office park, a small pocket park, and
the Castro Valley Library. I noticed recently that more people who
didn’t seem to have any other place to go were hanging out along the
creek. It is a relatively safe refuge to be homeless in Castro Valley.

Back in 2007, the Alameda County Flood Control & Water Conservation
District unearthed and restored the Castro Valley Creek
<http://acfloodcontrol.org/projects-and-programs/environmental-restoration/castro-valley-creek-restoration>
between Castro Valley Boulevard and Norbridge Avenue into a “naturalized
creek.” My boys and I often walk or ride our bikes past the Creek on our
way to the Castro Valley Library or Rudy’s Donuts on the weekend.

A few months after we moved into our home in 2009, the Castro Valley
Library opened. You can see the reading room of the Castro Valley
Library from my backyard. We share this neighborhood with the homeless
who have made the Castro Valley Creek their home.

Last week, I spent some time meeting the people who live and sleep
outside, so close to where my family and I sleep at night in our home.


        The community along Castro Valley Creek

IMG_0594Rhonda was evicted from her Castro Valley mobile home, where she
had lived for 22-years. She is now homeless and sleeps near Castro
Valley Creek.

She estimated the homeless population around the Creek to be about 20
people, a community where everyone knows each other, all mostly around
age 60.

Rhonda said she felt “so disregarded, so disenfranchised.” Being
homeless was the “was the last thing I thought would happen. It happened
so fast,” she said. “That’s my life,” she said, “If it disappears, it
disappears.”

At one time Rhonda worked at Safeway. She suffers from depression.  She
said that her biggest safety issue is being hassled by others in the
homeless community.  She optimistically calls her current situation an
“extended urban camping trip” and believes that “it will all work out in
the end.”

Larry used to live in a mobile home on Castro Valley  Boulevard. He
could not pay his rent and was evicted. Most of his possessions were
thrown away, some of his stuff is in a storage unit. He lives off his
Social Security. During the winter, he went to a shelter.

IMG_0600

She did not speak, but she accepted my offer of a bottle of water last
Tuesday, when it got hot outside. She has created a space for herself
next the building behind the Kentucky Fried Chicken and next to the
Castro Valley Creek. The area around the Castro Valley Creek provides
ample shade.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


        Carts & Debris

IMG_0599
<http://castrovalleymatters.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/IMG_0599.jpg>
In the area around the Kentucky Fried Chicken and CVS, there is a lot of
debris and overflowing shopping carts. Rhonda said that she and other
people in her situation find places to hide their belongings throughout
town. When I walked around the Creek, it was not clear at times what
were personal possessions and what were items that had simply been dumped.

IMG_0595
<http://castrovalleymatters.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/IMG_0595.jpg>

Behind the CVS, I saw a man sleeping in between two couches that were
made into a relatively private make-shift shelter. He declined to be
photographed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


        Alameda County Sheriff’s Office Role

“I really believe our homeless population is growing,” said Alameda
County Sheriff’s Office <http://Alameda County Sheriff's
Office> Sergeant Bret Scheuller, who works closely with the homeless
community in unincorporated Alameda County. Scheuller confirmed
Rhonda’s estimate, saying that he sees a community of about 20-25 people
in Castro Valley who are consistently homeless. Most of the population
lives along the Hayward/Castro Valley border. Creek areas, over- and
underpasses, and heavily shaded areas with trees are a big draw to the
homeless community, he said.

The Sheriff’s Office works most directly with the homeless community,
mainly because of complaints from the public. The most common complaints
are about encampments along public property. “We try to have have an
idea of who the homeless are,” Scheuller said.  Most homeless will have
a cellphone, and the Sheriff’s Office uses that information to reach out
to the community to try to match them with what limited assistance is
available.

While there are criminal elements in the community, dominated by
trespassing on private property and drug use, assaults against the
non-homeless population is not common, Scheuller said. “There is no law
against being homeless,” he said. As Rhonda suggested, some violent
crime tends to happen within the homeless community, particularly in
encampments where there are incidents involving domestic violence,
stabbings and weapons, he said.

“A lot of them deal with mental health issues,” Scheuller said. “With
mental health issues, it’s unpredictable.”

Filed Under: Alameda County Sheriff
<http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/alameda-county-sheriff/>,
Community <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/community/>, Featured
Story <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/featured-story/>, SF
Homeless Project
<http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/sf-homeless-project/> Tagged
With: Homeless <http://castrovalleymatters.org/tag/homeless/>


        About Michael Kusiak

Michael is a founding member and President of Castro Valley Matters. He
works at the University of California, Office of the President. He
earned his BA in German and Economics at the University of Richmond and
completed his MA in European Studies at Washington University in St.
Louis. He has worked in a variety of research administration and policy
roles at the University of California. Much of his current work focuses
on developing applications to streamline the policy decision making
process. He lives in Castro Valley with his two young sons and wife.


      Comments

 1.

    Julie Greenfield says	

    July 1, 2016 at 12:54 am
    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/06/29/cvcreek-homeless/#comment-2571>

    Thanks so much for doing this research, and writing this article,
    Michael. It is so easy to look away, and not look at people in
    difficult straits. I didn’t realize there were so many homeless
    people in CV. I think public restrooms would be a great first step
    to treat these people with dignity.

    Reply
    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/06/29/cvcreek-homeless/?replytocom=2571#respond>


      Leave a Reply Cancel reply
      <http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/06/29/cvcreek-homeless/#respond>

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment

Name *

Email *

Website

  *  <https://www.facebook.com/CastroValleyMatters>
  *  <http://castrovalleymatters.org/feed/>
  *  <https://twitter.com/ceeveematters/>


        Search this Site


        Recent Comments

  * Ellen Griffin on Daughtrey’s on Monday’s MAC agenda with giant
    indoor playground plan
    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/11/23/daughtreys-on-mondays-mac-agenda-with-indoor-playground-plan/#comment-3119>
  * Ellen Griffin on Daughtrey’s on Monday’s MAC agenda with giant
    indoor playground plan
    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/11/23/daughtreys-on-mondays-mac-agenda-with-indoor-playground-plan/#comment-3118>
  * Peter Rosen on Daughtrey’s on Monday’s MAC agenda with giant indoor
    playground plan
    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/11/23/daughtreys-on-mondays-mac-agenda-with-indoor-playground-plan/#comment-3115>
  * David Greensfelder on Daughtrey’s on Monday’s MAC agenda with giant
    indoor playground plan
    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/11/23/daughtreys-on-mondays-mac-agenda-with-indoor-playground-plan/#comment-3113>
  * David Greensfelder on Daughtrey’s on Monday’s MAC agenda with giant
    indoor playground plan
    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/11/23/daughtreys-on-mondays-mac-agenda-with-indoor-playground-plan/#comment-3112>


        Find Us On Facebook

Copyright © 2016 · News Pro Theme
<http://my.studiopress.com/themes/news/> on Genesis Framework
<http://www.studiopress.com/> · WordPress <http://wordpress.org/> · Log
in <http://castrovalleymatters.org/wp-login.php>

