New America Media <http://newamericamedia.org/>
|   Top Stories
 

  * RSS

    <http://newamericamedia.org/feeds.php>
  * | NETWORK <http://newamericamedia.org/network/> |
  * | SERVICES <http://static-1.namx.org/services/HTML/index.html>
  * | POLLS <http://newamericamedia.org/sections/polls/>
  * | EVENTS <http://newamericamedia.org/sections/events/>
  * | ABOUT US <http://newamericamedia.org/about/>
  * | NEWSLETTER SIGN UP <http://newamericamedia.org/nam-newsletters.php>
  * HOME <http://newamericamedia.org/>

Browse by:

African

African American

Asian

Caribbean

European

Indigenous

Intersections

Latino

Middle Eastern

Multi-ethnic

South Asian

Today is: Nov 17, 2016

	
× <javascript:void(0)>

		 

	
powered by
	

Custom Search

Web
 
 
 
	

  * Arts & Entertainment

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/arts-entertainment/>
  * Collaborative Reporting

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/collaborative-reporting/>
  * Economy

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/economy/>
  * Education

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/education/>
  * Elders

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/elders/>
  * Environment

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/environment/>
  * Ethnic Media Headlines

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/ethnic-media-headlines/>
  * Ethnic Media Network

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/ethnic-media-network/>
  * Gender & Sexuality

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/gender-sexuality/>
  * Growing Older, Getting Poorer

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/growing-old-growing-poor/>
  * Health

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/health/>
  * Health Care Reform

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/health-care-reform/>
  * Immigration

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/immigration/>
  * International Affairs

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/international-affairs/>
  * NAM en Español

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/nam-en-espanol/>
  * Original NAM Content

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/original-nam-content/>
  * Palliative & Hospice Care

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/palliative-hospice-care/>
  * Politics & Governance

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/politics-governance/>
  * Religion

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/religion/>
  * Science & Technology

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/science-and-technology/>
  * Small Business

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/small-business/>
  * Sports

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/sports/>
  * The Movement to Expand Health Care Access

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/the-movement-to-expand-healthcare-access/>
  * Youth Culture

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/youth/>
  * Multimedia

    <#>
      o Audio

        <http://newamericamedia.org/multimedia/audio/>
      o Photo Galleries

        <http://newamericamedia.org/multimedia/photo-galleries/>
      o Video

        <http://newamericamedia.org/multimedia/video/>
  * All Stories

    <http://newamericamedia.org/archives.php>


      'It's Not Just About Toilets' -- A 'Bellwether' of City's Response
      to Homelessness
      <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/06/its-not-just-about-toilets-hygiene-facilities-a-bellwether-of-citys-response-to-homelessness.php>

'It's Not Just About Toilets' -- A 'Bellwether' of City's Response to
Homelessness <#>


    *Story* tools

Comments <#comments>

A

<#> A

<#> A

<#>Resize

Print <#>

Share and Email <#>

 

New America Media <http://www.newamericamedia.org/>, News Feature, Anna
Challet, Posted: Jun 29, 2016

/
EDITOR'S NOTE: This story is part of The San Francisco Chronicle's /SF
Homeless Project/ <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/>. /

The state of San Francisco’s sidewalks has generated outrage for
decades. But every joke about poop and complaint about smells misses the
point – that the city has a public health emergency that it could fix,
but doesn’t. And it’s one that destroys people’s dignity on a daily basis.

“Bathrooms are the least common denominator,” says Margot Kushel, an
internist at San Francisco General Hospital and a professor of medicine
at UCSF’s Center for Vulnerable Populations, who conducts research on
the health effects of homelessness on older adults. “The reason people
need hygiene facilities is that they do not have housing. It’s a
statement of how bad the problem is that we’re talking about these
bandages. It’s a bellwether for how far we are from housing our community.”

There are physical consequences of not having access to a bathroom,
ranging from skin breakdown to tooth decay to urinary tract infections.
But the physiological effects are “almost secondary compared to the
enormous effect on mental health, on a person’s ability to obtain social
support and their ability to engage,” says Kushel. The city’s inaction
on providing adequate facilities plays a major role in keeping people
from exiting homelessness.

At a legislative level, going to the bathroom in public is considered a
criminal activity, despite being a basic bodily function that every
individual would prefer to do indoors. (Kushel brings up the children’s
book, “Everyone Poops,” as an instructive document.) According to the
Budget and Legislative Analyst’s Office, last year alone, San Francisco
spent more than $20 million penalizing homeless people for violating
“quality-of-life” laws, one of which is the law against urinating or
defecating in public.

“By virtue of saying it’s an illegal activity, you’re discriminating
against those forced to do it in public. Houseless people are eventually
going to break the law,” says Paul Boden, the director of the Western
Regional Advocacy Project and the former director of San Francisco’s
Coalition on Homelessness.

And toilets are just one aspect of the story – the need for hygiene
facilities includes showers and washing machines. The nonprofit Lava Mae
has worked to fill the gap with mobile showers installed in
decommissioned Muni buses, but they’re a relatively small operation and
not designed to be a replacement for infrastructure. A scattering of
places like the Mission Neighborhood Resource Center, which has a couple
of showers and a washing machine, are open for limited hours.

Boden was homeless for six years when he was in his late teens and early
twenties. He recalls that the city used to have a much more robust
system of public hygiene facilities. “When I was on the street in the
early 1980s, you could take showers down at Aquatic Park,” he says. “But
when homelessness started becoming a problem, the response was to close
the bathrooms.”

He says that when he was coming off the street, what took the longest
time to recover were his teeth and his feet. “When we talk about hygiene
centers, people think we’re just talking about toilets. It’s not just
about toilets. The health conditions that could be alleviated by access
to hygiene centers are astronomical.”

Feet take a beating when you can’t change into fresh socks, and not
being able to wash leads to soft tissue infections, which then get
progressively worse when they aren’t cleaned. Unsanitary conditions can
also generally contribute to the spread of disease.

Former Assemblyman Tom Ammiano introduced a bill in 2012, AB 5, which as
part of a “homeless bill of rights” would have required the State
Department of Public Health to fund “hygiene centers” with showers and
bathrooms, but it died in appropriations. Boden, whose organization
co-authored the bill, says the idea was to attach the centers to
existing neighborhood-based health centers.

Sam Dodge, the director of the Mayor’s Office of Housing Opportunity,
Partnerships and Engagement (often referred to as the city’s homeless
czar) started the Pit Stop program in 2014, which now has 14 locations
with public toilets that are monitored by employees.

But, he says of progress that’s been made in the past few years, “All of
these things are kind of half-steps.”

“Part of the infrastructure of San Francisco traditionally has been
bathhouses,” he says. “During the AIDS crisis they were steadily
eliminated. But it’s clear that there needs to be a kind of public
bathhouse.”

The biggest problem, Kushel says, is people’s dignity – the damage
inflicted by having to walk around in soiled clothing. “The main effect
is of stigma and shame, which impacts a person’s ability to exit
homelessness. It’s hard to search for work when you have soiled
clothing, hard to present yourself to apply for housing.”

“I can’t tell you how often I go to examine someone and they don’t want
me to examine them because they think they smell,” she says. “If you
feel like you smell you might not attend church or go see your family.
You’ll be embarrassed and ashamed. And people look down on you and
isolate you more.”

There needs to be a paradigm shift, she thinks – we have to start
thinking of housing as health care.

“Housing is health care. As soon as people lose their housing, their
chronic disease management gets worse. Their acute needs and their need
for institutional care become higher. There are very few diseases as
potent as homelessness,” she says. “If you had one thing to predict
whether someone would be re-admitted to the hospital or die prematurely,
there are very few constructs as potent as housing. If our goal is
promote health, this is one of the most important interventions we can
do. Everything else is dwarfed.”

Dodge and Kushel agree that the housing issue is solvable – it’s a
matter of connecting people with the services that are appropriate for
their individual situations, and will require investment at the national
level. “We have an insane housing system in our country where we have
lotteries and years-long wait lists for necessary housing, and yet
unlimited mortgage deductions in the tax code,” says Dodge. “The idea
that this is unsolvable is a total canard. We should look at a universal
right to housing like we do public education. It would cost about $60
billion a year to subsidize every low-income person’s rent. We
absolutely have the money to do this as a nation.”

And Kushel says that locally we have to take responsibility as well.
“It’s not unconnected that this region has so much wealth and so much
poverty. You see the sort of anger leveled at the people experiencing
economic displacement. We talk about not having money, but it’s a matter
of political will,” she says. “And then we’re left having this
discussion about toilets.”

/Photo: Anna Challet / New America Media/
Edit This Entry
<http://publisher.namx.org/mt.cgi?__mode=view&_type=entry&id=15426&blog_id=19>


  * rss <http://newamericamedia.org/feeds/top-stories.xml>
  * Share and Email <#> |
  * Print <#> |

 


    *Comments*

California Youthwire
<http://ads.namx.org/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=727__zoneid=149__source=%7Bobfs%3A%7D__cb=5cd0818b0e__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.youthwire.org%2F>
 


    *Related* Articles


          Cemetery Honors Vietnamese Who Fought Alongside U.S. Troops
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2014/09/cemetery-honors-vietnamese-who-fought-alongside-us-troops.php>

photo: Truat Quang Dinh, a South Vietnamese veteran, at an April 30
commemoration of the…


          THE HOME CARE REVOLUTION: Eldercare at the Crossroads
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2013/05/the-homecare-revolution-eldercare-at-the-crossroads.php>

Photo: Chuck Schockweiler pours a liquid lunch into a feeding tube for
his wife, Rosalie.…


          Twin Papers Prove Power of Print for DC-Area South Asians
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2013/04/two-papers-prove-power-of-print-for-dc-area-south-asians.php>

Photo: Editor Rajan George in the India This Week and Express India
office.Editor’ Note: New…


          The ‘New Normal’ -- Calif. Youth Giving Up the Gun
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2013/03/the-new-normal----calif-youth-giving-up-the-gun.php>

Ed. Note: In the debate around gun violence, no one group is impacted and…


          Don’t Get Carjacked in Maricopa County
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2012/10/dont-get-carjacked-in-maricopa-county.php>

This story was updated on Oct. 26, 2012.Traducción al españolPHOENIX,
Ariz. -- The switchblade pressing…


          For Those in Poverty, City College a ‘Lifeline’
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2012/10/for-those-in-poverty-city-college-a-lifeline.php>

Pictured Above (L to R): Philip Standing Bear, Tony Robles and Ingrid
DeLeon EDITOR'S NOTE:…

 
 
 
 
 
feelbetter
<http://ads.namx.org/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=781__zoneid=150__source=%7Bobfs%3A%7D__cb=735151267b__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Ffeelbetterca.org%2F>
 
Election 2016
<http://ads.namx.org/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=795__zoneid=187__source=%7Bobfs%3A%7D__cb=d20774c398__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Fnewamericamedia.org%2Felection-2016%2Findex.php>
 


  * Home <http://newamericamedia.org/>
  * |
  * About Us <http://newamericamedia.org/about/>
  * |
  * Services/Advertise <http://static-1.namx.org/services/HTML/index.html>
  * |
  * Network <http://newamericamedia.org/network/>
  * |
  * Writer's Guidelines <http://newamericamedia.org/writers-guidelines/>
  * |
  * Privacy Policy <http://newamericamedia.org/privacy-policy/>

New America Media, 209 9th Street, Suite 200, San Francisco, CA 94103

website security <#>
	
