  * MotherJones

    <http://m.motherjones.com/>
  * //

    <http://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2016/06/san-francisco-homelessness-charts-data-causes>

  * //

    <http://twitter.com/intent/tweet?original_referer=http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2016/06/san-francisco-homelessness-charts-data-causes&related=davidcorndc%3AWashington%20editor%20of%20Mother%20Jones%20magazine%20and%20blogger%20at%20www.davidcorn.com%2Ckdrum%3APolitical%20blogger%20and%20writer%20for%20Mother%20Jones%20magazine.%2Ctomphilpott%3AThe%20cofounder%20of%20Maverick%20Farms%20and%20food%20%26%20agriculture%20correspondent%20for%20Mother%20Jones.%2Cclarajeffery%3ACo-editor%20of%20Mother%20Jones.%20Mom.%20One%20very%20tired%20lady.&source=tweetbutton&text=1+in+200+San+Franciscans+Sleep+on+the+Streets&url=http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2016/06/san-francisco-homelessness-charts-data-causes&via=motherjones>

  *

                  
                  
                  
                  
                

  * Donate

    <https://secure.motherjones.com/fnp/?action=SUBSCRIPTION&list_source=8HEGPA08&extra_don=1&abver=A>

  * Subscribe

    <https://secure.motherjones.com/fnx/?action=SUBSCRIPTION&pub_code=MJM&term_pub=MJM&list_source=SEGYN5&base_country=US>


  * Search

    <http://m.motherjones.com/search/apachesolr_search>
  * Newsletter

    <http://m.motherjones.com/about/interact-engage/free-email-newsletter>
  * Magazine

    <http://m.motherjones.com/magazine>
  * Politics

    <http://m.motherjones.com/politics>
  * Environment

    <http://m.motherjones.com/environment>
  * Media

    <http://m.motherjones.com/media>
  * Crime and Justice

    <http://m.motherjones.com/topics/crime-and-justice>
  * Food

    <http://m.motherjones.com/topics/food>
  * Guns

    <http://m.motherjones.com/topics/guns>
  * Dark Money

    <http://m.motherjones.com/topics/dark-money>
  * Photos

    <http://m.motherjones.com/photoessays>
  * Investigations

    <http://m.motherjones.com/topics/investigations>
  * Podcasts

    <http://m.motherjones.com/podcasts>
  * Kevin Drum

    <http://m.motherjones.com/m/kevin-drum>
  * About

    <http://m.motherjones.com/about>
  * Subscribe

    <https://secure.motherjones.com/fnp/?action=SUBSCRIPTION&list_source=TMOBLMN&a_edition_code=P>
  * Donate

    <https://secure.motherjones.com/fnp/?action=SUBSCRIPTION&list_source=8HMOBNAV&extra_don=1&abver=A>


1 in 200 San Franciscans Sleep on the Streets

The city's homelessness crisis—and its causes—in seven charts.

Julia Lurie <http://m.motherjones.com/authors/julia-lurie> Jun. 30, 2016
5:00 AM

*This article is part of the SF Homeless Project
<http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2016/06/san-francisco-homeless-project-mother-jones>,
a collaboration between nearly 70 media organizations to explore the
state of homelessness in San Francisco. *

On any given night, 1 in 200 San Franciscans sleep on the street.**Among
the nation's large urban areas, the city has the highest per capita rate
of unsheltered homeless people—people who live outside, in cars, or in
abandoned buildings, as opposed to in shelters or transitional housing.
Over the past decade, as the city has experienced a tech boom and
sky-high housing prices, the number of homeless people living in the
open has increased 64 percent, to nearly 4,400 people, according to the
most current (though controversial
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/numbers/>) count.


      San Francisco's growing homeless population

Homelessness isn't unique to San Francisco, of course: All told, there
are nearly 600,000 homeless individuals in the United States. That
number has dropped slightly over the years, from 647,000 in 2007 to
575,000 last year. But in several big cities—such as New York, Seattle,
Miami, San Francisco, and Washington, DC—the number of homeless people
has increased
<http://www.wsj.com/articles/thriving-u-s-cities-grapple-with-homelessness-surge-1454063401>
over the same period.


      Homelessness in 15 largest US cities, 2015


      How'd we get here?

Given San Francisco's increasingly visible, stubbornly high homelessness
rate, it's easy to forget that homelessness is a relatively recent
phenomenon—one that housing experts agree
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/overview/> began in earnest
in the late '70s and early '80s*.*

To get a better sense of the historical and ongoing causes of
homelessness, I spoke with researchers from the Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities <http://www.cbpp.org/>, the National Low Income
Housing Coalition <http://nlihc.org/>, and the California Housing
Partnership Corporation <http://chpc.net/>. They pointed to a sequence
of policies in the '80s and '90s that cut housing and social services
for America's poorest residents, eliminating the safety nets that once
kept many people from landing on the streets.

The researchers at all three organizations pointed out a paradox: While
homelessness is experienced and witnessed at a local level, the
underlying causes are systematic, long term, and largely the results of
decisions made at the federal level. These root causes have been well
established for decades, says Stacey Murphy, the research director of
the California Housing Partnership Corporation: the decline in wages,
cuts to welfare and affordable housing, and the lack of mental health
services. "It's the same four things. It's mystifying to me," she says.
"When people stop thinking about it as one person and think about
policy—when you ask, as a nation, why so many people live on the streets
and how we can not provide a basic level of services for those people—it
raises profound questions about our society."

Here are some factors that have driven San Francisco's—and the
nation's—homelessness problem for the past four decades.


       


      Affordable housing cuts

Reaganomics brought prosperity for some, but its small-government
policies led to massive funding cuts to**federal affordable housing
programs and social services. "When we look at the affordable housing
crisis today, there's a direct line back to really severe cuts that were
made to critical affordable housing programs under the Reagan
administration," says Diane Yentel, the president of the National Low
Income Housing Coalition. She points out that, unlike other federal
safety nets like Social Security and Medicare, affordable housing isn't
automatic even if you qualify for it. "When public housing agencies open
up a waiting list, you'll see long lines of people waiting just to add
their name to the waiting list—and they're waiting literally decades,"
she says. Today, there are just three affordable and available housing
units for every 10 extremely low-income families, according to the NLIHC.

(The spike in 2009 was the effect of the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act stimulus package, which included one-time funding for
housing.)


       


      Sagging incomes, soaring rents

As the chart below shows,**family income roughly doubled across all
income groups in the two decades after World War II. But starting in the
mid-'70s, income disparities widened: Families in the top bracket
continued to see their incomes rise while the incomes of middle-class
and low-income families stagnated
<http://www.cbpp.org/research/poverty-and-inequality/a-guide-to-statistics-on-historical-trends-in-income-inequality>.

While income has flatlined for many Americans, rents are rising
<http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2014/06/rental-affordability-crisis-hud>—and
fast—in many cities. This is partly a matter of supply and demand: In
cities like San Francisco, the supply of housing units has not kept up
with population growth.

The gap between income and rent is particularly extreme among San
Francisco's low-income residents. Over the past decade, the monthly
income of a low-income San Francisco household (one that makes 30
percent of the median, which is currently $107,700 annually) has
increased by 14 percent, not adjusting for inflation. Over the same
period, the median rent for a modest two-bedroom apartment rose 38
percent. In order to make that rent without spending more than 30
percent of their annual income, a person would need to make $44 an hour,
or more than $91,000 per year.**


       


      Welfare cuts

Until 1996, poor families could count on federal welfare benefits, says
Murphy. "It didn't say you would get a lot, but if you were poor and met
requirements, the federal government footed the bill. Welfare reform
changed that." The Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity
Reconciliation Act signed by President Bill Clinton gave states the
power to decide who would receive federal assistance. States imposed
stricter eligibility rules, and all families were limited to a total of
five years on welfare.

In 1995, three of four families with children in poverty received
welfare benefits. By 2014, that number had dropped to one in four. Since
welfare benefits are largely spent on rent, the reduction in benefits
means fewer families in poverty are able to afford a home. "If you're
not receiving cash assistance at all, [welfare] is not helping you pay
for housing," says Liz Schott, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget
and Policy Priorities.


       


      Benefits don't go as far

As the number of poor families on welfare has declined, so has the value
of those benefits. In 1980, a family of three living in the Bay Area
received a maximum benefit of $473 a month, or $1,361 in 2015 dollars.
In 2015, the maximum such a family could receive was $704, an effective
cut of**nearly 50 percent. "Very few people are on assistance. but those
who are say they can't meet their basic needs like housing by just
relying on assistance," says Ife Floyd, a policy analyst at the Center
on Budget and Policy Priorities. "It's the same story across the country."

 

  * //

    <http://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2016/06/san-francisco-homelessness-charts-data-causes>

  * //

    <http://twitter.com/intent/tweet?original_referer=http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2016/06/san-francisco-homelessness-charts-data-causes&related=davidcorndc%3AWashington%20editor%20of%20Mother%20Jones%20magazine%20and%20blogger%20at%20www.davidcorn.com%2Ckdrum%3APolitical%20blogger%20and%20writer%20for%20Mother%20Jones%20magazine.%2Ctomphilpott%3AThe%20cofounder%20of%20Maverick%20Farms%20and%20food%20%26%20agriculture%20correspondent%20for%20Mother%20Jones.%2Cclarajeffery%3ACo-editor%20of%20Mother%20Jones.%20Mom.%20One%20very%20tired%20lady.&source=tweetbutton&text=1+in+200+San+Franciscans+sleep+on+the+streets&url=http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2016/06/san-francisco-homelessness-charts-data-causes&via=motherjones>
  * Email

    <http://m.motherjones.com/forward?path=node/307841>


          Get the scoop, straight from Mother Jones.

// 	

//view comments

<http://motherjones.disqus.com/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.motherjones.com%2Fnode%2F307841>


Related

<http://m.motherjones.com/node/307811>Could This Silicon Valley
Algorithm Pick Which Homeless People Get Housing?

<http://m.motherjones.com/politics/2016/06/homelessness-data-silicon-valley-prediction-santa-clara>Josh
Harkinson

<http://m.motherjones.com/authors/josh-harkinson>
Mother Jones

<http://m.motherjones.com/m>

  * // <https://www.facebook.com/motherjones>
  * // <https://twitter.com/motherjones>
  *

    <http://m.motherjones.com/about/interact-engage/free-email-newsletter>
    <http://m.motherjones.com/about/interact-engage/free-email-newsletter>

<http://m.motherjones.com/about/interact-engage/free-email-newsletter>

  * <http://m.motherjones.com/about/interact-engage/free-email-newsletter><http://m.motherjones.com/about/interact-engage/free-email-newsletter>About
    Us <http://m.motherjones.com/about> | Store
    <http://store.motherjones.com/?utm_source=motherjones&utm_medium=footer&utm_content=orangefooterlink&utm_campaign=evergreen>

  * Donate
    <https://secure.motherjones.com/fnp/?action=SUBSCRIPTION&list_source=8HEGP009&extra_don=1&abver=A>
    | Subscribe
    <https://secure.motherjones.com/fnx/?action=SUBSCRIPTION&pub_code=MJM&term_pub=MJM&list_source=SEGYN5&base_country=US>

  * Customer Service
    <http://m.motherjones.com/about/subscriptions/customer-service>
  * Advertise <http://m.motherjones.com/about/advertising/contact-form>

Copyright ©2016 Mother Jones and the Foundation for National Progress.
All Rights Reserved.

Terms of Service <http://m.motherjones.com/about/terms> Privacy Policy
<http://m.motherjones.com/about/privacy-policy> Contact Us
<http://www.motherjones.com/about/contact>

Close
Advertisement
<http://adserver.adtechus.com/adlink/5443/2878349/0/3055/AdId=8929320;BnId=2;itime=452603257;key=m%2BEconomy%2BIncome%5FInequality%2Bpolitics;nodecode=yes;link=>

