Jump to Navigation

<#main-menu>
<https://www.facebook.com/AlterNetNews> <https://twitter.com/AlterNet>
<http://feeds.feedblitz.com/alternet>
SEARCH


    Search form

Search

Home <http://www.alternet.org/>

  * ◀
      o Environment / Food

        <http://www.alternet.org/environment>
          + Environment

            <http://www.alternet.org/environment>
          + Food

            <http://www.alternet.org/food>
          + Fracking

            <http://www.alternet.org/fracking>
          + Water

            <http://www.alternet.org/water>
      o Economy

        <http://www.alternet.org/economy>
          + Economy

            <http://www.alternet.org/economy>
          + Labor

            <http://www.alternet.org/labor>
          + Local

            <http://www.alternet.org/LPE>
      o Education

        <http://www.alternet.org/education>
      o Rights

        <http://www.alternet.org/rights>
          + Human Rights

            <http://www.alternet.org/rights>
          + LGBTQ

            <http://www.alternet.org/lgbtq>
          + Immigration

            <http://www.alternet.org/immigration>
      o Media / Culture

        <http://www.alternet.org/media>
          + Media

            <http://www.alternet.org/media>
          + Culture

            <http://www.alternet.org/culture>
          + Books

            <http://www.alternet.org/books>
          + Documentaries

            <http://www.alternet.org/documentaries-0>
      o Health

        <http://www.alternet.org/health>
      o Drugs

        <http://www.alternet.org/drugs>
      o Activism

        <http://www.alternet.org/activism>
      o Belief

        <http://www.alternet.org/belief>
      o Pleasure

        <http://www.alternet.org/sex>
          + Sex & Relationships

            <http://www.alternet.org/sex>

Economy


  10 Things You Should Know About What It's Really Like to Be Homeless

Separating truth from fiction.
/By/ /Evelyn Nieves <http://www.alternet.org/authors/evelyn-nieves-0>/ /
AlterNet <http://alternet.org/>
/June 28, 2016 /

  *

AddThis Sharing Buttons
Share to Facebook1.8KShare to TwitterShare to Google+Share to
More121Share to Email
Print

<http://www.alternet.org/print/economy/what-people-who-are-homeless-want-you-know-about-their-lives>
136 COMMENTS
<http://www.alternet.org/comments/economy/what-people-who-are-homeless-want-you-know-about-their-lives#disqus_thread>

Photo Credit: Shutterstock

/Ed. note: The San Francisco Chronicle
<http://www.sfgate.com/homeless/article/SF-Homeless-Project-Letter-to-the-City-8326254.php?cmpid=email-desktop>
has spearheaded an effort to cover the city’s most intractable
humanitarian crisis, homelessness. More than 70 local and national media
organizations are participating by examining the issue from all possible
angles. As part of this effort, AlterNet has interviewed homeless people
in San Francisco to get their take on how and why they have lost their
shelter and what life is like for them in the nation’s capital of
inequality./

On Monday afternoon, as Patty L., a 33-year-old native San Franciscan
currently living in a tent, began describing the casual hate tossed her
way every day, a 30-ish, chubby white man in an Izod polo and khaki
shorts walked by.

“Um,” he said scornfully. “Can I get through?”

<https://donate.alternet.org/SP15-SPLASH4-1/>

Patty was leaning against a building, visiting two friends who live in a
tent on a corner across the street from a trendy rock climbing gym. At
least five feet of pavement separated Patty and the tent, which sits in
the Mission District, a Latino/working-class/artists’ enclave
transforming into the fastest-gentrifying neighborhood in the country.

A minute before, a woman with a double stroller passed Patty and her
friends without pause. But the man stood there, waiting for Patty to
plant herself against the building.

Feeling the sting of prejudice, Patty waved her arm for him to pass.

“There’s room!” one of her friends said, peering out of the tent. “Just
go!” said the other.

After a time, the man grudgingly walked by sideways, as if to avoid
contamination, then pulled out his iPhone. With a dramatic sigh, he
dialed three numbers, presumably 311, San Francisco’s “snitch line” for
reporting homeless “issues.”

“See?” Patty said. “We’re not human.”

It’s never easy living on the streets, of course. But in San Francisco,
which has remade itself since the end of the Great Recession into the
nation’s tech haven, a bedroom community for Silicon Valley workers, the
headquarters of some of the biggest tech companies—Uber, Airbnb,
Twitter—and the home, or one of the homes, of billionaires like Mark
Zuckerberg, it is a waking nightmare. As the divide between the haves
and the have-nots has become a chasm, being poor has become a leprosy.

Working-class and middle-class renters hold on for dear life to
apartments that well-heeled techies are willing to pay thousands of
dollars a month to live in—a homely studio in the Mission can command
 $2,500 a month, no utilities (or basic appliances, sometimes) included.
Meanwhile, people who have lived on modest wages or government checks
for years, decades even, are being evicted or displaced. To rent a
studio in one of the most affordable neighborhoods in the city, the
Tenderloin, may cost more than $6,000 up front. In the Mission,
working-class residents are competing with newcomers willing to offer
more than the landlord is asking, and to pay a year’s rent up front. So
it is little wonder that so many Mission residents end up in tents and
tarps under bridges, ramps and, more and more, even on busy streets,
much to the obvious dismay of others.

No one is quite sure how many people are living on the streets or in
their vehicles in San Francisco. The estimates range from 6,660, based
on a single count in mid-January 2015 as required biennially by the
Department of Housing and Urban Development (H.U.D.) to receive federal
funds, to approximately 10,000, based on figures from the city’s
Department of Public Health. Whatever the number, anyone who has lived
in San Francisco for even a few years will say homelessness, which has
bedeviled City Hall since the 1980s, is worse than ever.

This is true in cities across the country experiencing a post-Recession
boom—New York, Seattle, Los Angeles, to name a few—but San Francisco, a
tiny city in comparison to those, just 49 square miles, has seen the
most dramatic increases. In five years, from 2010 to 2015, (the latest
figures available) the city’s population jumped by 45,000, to 850,000,
its highest number ever. At the same time, housing units increased by
only 7,500 units. And while the city’s mayor, Ed Lee, is pushing for
20,000 new units in the city by 2020, the vast majority of those are
market rate, and if current population trends continue, even those will
not be enough for the demand.

This is emphatically true for those at the bottom of the 99
percent—people who used to be able to afford a stable room in a
single-resident occupancy who simply cannot afford anything these days.

The official response to the increase in the visible homeless population
in San Francisco has been, and continues to be, to dismantle homeless
encampments. A referendum on the city’s November ballot, sponsored by a
Supervisor who says he wants to “end homelessness,” would ban all
homeless encampments and empower police officers to confiscate them
within 24 hours.

Before the city became the host for the Super Bowl’s lavish parties,
Mayor Lee infamously said the homeless camped in a staging area for the
festivities “would have to go.” When the displaced moved to a freeway
underpass, creating the city’s biggest-ever tent city, the mayor had
that encampment dismantled as well. (The city’s botched handling of the
homeless encampments became the enduring theme of Super Bowl 50, covered
by media all over the world.)

Since then, a temporary homeless shelter at a pier in the remote,
industrial corridor of the city has opened and closed, though six more
like it, giving people freedom to come and go and even keep their
companion animals, are planned, though not assured, within the next two
years.

Meanwhile, for a city that touts itself as a booming magnet for young
creatives, San Francisco is a stressed-out, tense metropolis. Monied
newcomers are annoyed that for all they are paying to live here, traffic
is snarled, the public transit is jammed, and everything from a cup of
coffee to gas costs more than most places.

A major complaint is about the homeless people who are living under
their noses. (At least that’s what the comments in stories about the
city suggest.) For many people who have never talked to a homeless
person, “the homeless” are living a lifestyle choice, content to live in
squalor and depend on the kindness of non-profits and strangers.

Reality is far from it. To be homeless in San Francisco is a waking
nightmare, hardly a “choice” that some politicians, abetted by some in
the media, have insisted. In interviews over two weeks with three dozen
homeless people in the Mission district, specifically asking what they
want the rest of society to know about being homeless, the number one
sentiment expressed cried out for human empathy, if not decency: “We’re
human beings.” That topped the list by far, but there were other basic
themes. Below are the top 10, in no particular order.

*1. Homeless people are human.*

Time and again, people who are homeless in San Francisco say they think
people look at them and act as if being homeless makes them less than human.

“We breathe the same air,” said a young man named Brooke Burkiett,
having lunch at a street corner picnic run by nuns from St. Anthony of
Padua Church in the Mission.

“We’re not so scary,” said Joe (no last name), who lives nearby in a
tent between an overpass and an underpass.

“What is wrong with people in this city? I’ve never seen such
treatment," said Deborah La Cerola, a 55-year-old former academic who
has suffered from bipolar disorder.

“I’ve been spit on, kicked, had my tent kicked,” said Bimal Chand, a
47-year-old transgender woman originally from Fiji who recently
relocated to San Francisco. 

*2. Some homeless people have real jobs.*

Half a dozen of those interviewed are full-time workers who simply could
not afford another apartment or room after they were forced from their
residence.

Patricia Gonzalez, 45, works two part-time, minimum-wage jobs, one in
home care, the other at Sky Chef, which assembles food at the San
Francisco Airport. When she left her abusive boyfriend a year ago in
May, she found she could not afford to pay the new rents in the
neighborhood she has lived in all her life, especially since landlords
wanted three months’ rent upfront, a credit check and renter’s insurance
in order to qualify. She lives in her car with her 92-pound Italian
mastiff mix, Michael, and says she can not even go to a shelter because
of the dog.

“When I can save, we go to Motel 6 because they allow dogs,” she said.
But getting ahead, for the foreseeable future, is a tall mountain to climb.

Others spend their days trolling trash cans for recyclables. “By the
time I’m done, I’m so done,” said Bimal Chand.

*3. Not all homeless people are drug addicts or alcoholics.*

A city study conducted by the Department of Public Health in the last
fiscal year found that about 60 percent of the homeless surveyed had
abused drugs or alcohol at some point. Seven people interviewed said
they began drinking or doing drugs (methamphetamine being the most
common mentioned) only after they became homeless. Ten people said they
take drugs or drink, others said they only smoke pot. At least half said
that substance use or abuse is not an issue for them.

*4. Homeless people are more scared of you than you are of them.*

Joe, a 40-year-old African American who repairs bikes for money, said
people act as if he is going to rob them, though he has been the victim
of robberies. Indeed, nearly everyone interviewed said they have felt
unsafe on the streets and been targets of harassment and assault.

*5. Homeless people are often hungry and cold.*

Gregory, 46, sleeps by the side of an elementary school and said that
while churches offer free food, it is often hard for him to get around
to take advantage of it because he is worried about his shopping cart
being stolen, as has happened several times. While he often depends on
the kindness of strangers—he has become a known quantity on the quiet,
tree-lined street where he sleeps—he often cries himself to sleep from
the hunger pains.

Virtually every homeless person interviewed said that despite their
blanket cocoons and layers of clothing, they feel the weather acutely,
especially in the middle of the night when it is coldest. The cold is
the primary reason homeless people who don’t otherwise drink said they
drink alcohol, to numb themselves from the weather.

*6. Being a homeless woman is terrifying.*

Women often team up with men they are not interested in for protection
from predators, housed or not, who prey on them. A 65-year-old homeless
woman rides the bus at night to stay safe.

Others, like Bimal Chand, move from place to place to evade men who prey
on women. “I woke up to find someone on top of me in my tent last
Saturday,” she said. She screamed and yelled “rape!” and had to
physically fight the man off.

*7. Homeless people need dogs for protection and love.*

While housed people find homeless people with dogs even more of a
nuisance than those without a dog, homeless people say their dogs
protect them from harm, as well as from depression and even suicide.
Patricia Gonzalez took a bunch of pills and put a bag over her head
about six months ago, “sick to death,” she said, of the world. But she
woke up with the bag off—her dog had pushed it off her—and said she
realized that he needed her.

*8. Not all homeless people look homeless.*

Many homeless people try very hard not to look homeless, seeking out
showers and availing themselves of clothing giveaways, while the women
wear makeup and style their hair.

“We’re just like everybody else except we live in a tent instead of a
house,” said Patty L.

*9. Most homeless people do not want to be homeless.*

Only one person interviewed said he chose to be homeless. Brooke
Burkiett became homeless after driving down to San Francisco from
Humboldt County to sell pot, only to have his car towed. With no money,
he decided he would try to live without it for a while. As a young,
good-looking white man, he said he knows he has options, as well as
family willing to help him should he ask. “They think I must be
touched,” he said, with a laugh.

Everyone else said they wanted out of being outside and were either
actively trying or had it on the top of their lists. The problem, for
many, is that survival is exhausting.

*10. Being homeless is a full-time job.*

It takes three to four hours a day to collect enough cans to make $30 or
$40 in recycling, several people said. It takes two to four hours of
time, waiting on line, traveling to and fro, to take a shower at one of
the free shower providers. Getting lunch is another half a day’s
preoccupation. Finding a spot to sleep, for those without, can take
several hours as well.

Trying to navigate the city’s bureaucracy is onerous, several people
said, especially when they have no means of transport or have other
problems—their possessions stolen or confiscated by the police or city
Department of Public Works crews. It takes days of waiting and paperwork
to reclaim their identities when their wallets or bags are stolen, and
almost everyone interviewed said that has happened multiple times.

*One woman's story*

Patricia Gonzalez has been homeless since May of last year, when she
left an abusive relationship. She grew up a few blocks from where she
now lives in her car. She is from the Mission and went to Mission High.
In the clip below, she talks about working two jobs, just trying to keep
the car legal and feed her dog, Michael. She discusses her depression
and her suidicide attempt, and how impossible it is to find a room in
San Francisco while working minimum-wage jobs.

Watch the interview:

Two more recorded video interviews with homeless residents of San Francisco:

 

Evelyn Nieves is a senior contributing writer and editor at AlterNet,
living in San Francisco. She has been a reporter for both the New York
Times and the Washington Post.

        Share on Facebook Share <#>
        Share on Twitter Tweet <#>


Report typos and corrections to 'corrections@alternet.org'.
<mailto:corrections@alternet.org?Subject=Typo%20on%2010%20Things%20You%20Should%20Know%20About%20What%20It%27s%20Really%20Like%20to%20Be%20Homeless>

        136 COMMENTS
<http://www.alternet.org/comments/economy/what-people-who-are-homeless-want-you-know-about-their-lives#disqus_thread>

Stay Ahead of the Rest
Sign Up for AlterNet's Daily Newsletter
EMAIL:
+ sign up for additional lists
[x]
Select additional lists by selecting the checkboxes below before
clicking Subscribe:
Rights & Liberties
Education
Drugs
Economy
Environment
Labor
Food
World
Politics
Investigation
Personal Health
Water
Media

<http://www.accuweather.com/en/us/new-york-ny/10007/weather-forecast/349727>


      Stanford, CA

*58^°

*
9:56 pm PST

Partly cloudy

<http://www.accuweather.com/en/us/stanford-ca/94305/weather-forecast/337263?utm_source=www-alternet-org&utm_medium=oap_weather_widget&utm_term=link_current&utm_content=accuweather&utm_campaign=current>
/Get this widget

/

<http://www.accuweather.com/en/free-weather-widgets?utm_source=www-alternet-org&utm_medium=oap_weather_widget&utm_term=link_get_widget&utm_content=accuweather&utm_campaign=current>

Want weather on your site?

//Get widget

<http://www.accuweather.com/en/free-weather-widgets?utm_source=www-alternet-org&utm_medium=oap_weather_widget&utm_term=link_get_widget_footer&utm_content=accuweather&utm_campaign=current>
Stay Ahead of the Rest
Sign Up for AlterNet's Daily Newsletter
+ select additional lists
[x]
Select additional lists by selecting the checkboxes below before
clicking Subscribe:
Rights & Liberties
Education
Drugs
Economy
Environment
Labor
Food
World
Politics
Investigation
Personal Health
Water
Media


Enviro Newswire

Enviro Newswire
presented by <http://www.globalpossibilities.org/>
#  DONALD TRUMP PROMISES TO REVIVE COAL INDUSTRY. HE CAN'T.
<http://www.globalpossibilities.org/donald-trump-promises-to-revive-coal-industry-he-cant/>
# OBAMMA'S INTERIOR MAKES IT EASIER TO BUILD RENEWABLE ENERGY ON PUBLIC
LAND IN TRUMP ERA
<http://www.globalpossibilities.org/obamas-interior-makes-it-easier-to-build-renewable-energy-on-public-land-in-trump-er>
# TRUMP: VACCINES CAUSE AUTISM AND WILL BE INVESTIGATED
<http://www.globalpossibilities.org/trump-vaccines-cause-autism-and-will-be-investigated>
# PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION WON BIG ON ELECTION NIGHT
<http://www.globalpossibilities.org/public-transportation-won-big-on-election-night/>
# SYRIAN OPPOSITION LEFT WITH NOWHERE TO TURN AFTER TRUMP'S VICTORY
<http://www.globalpossibilities.org/syrian-opposition-left-with-nowhere-to-turn-after-trumps-victory/>
# REHABILITATING FORMER PRISONERS STARTS WITH AFFORDABLE HOUSING
<http://www.globalpossibilities.org/rehabilitating-former-prisoners-starts-with-affordable-housing/>
# CLIMATE CHANGE IS ALREADY ALTERING THE WORLD'S GENE POOL
<http://www.globalpossibilities.org/climate-change-is-already-altering-the-worlds-gene-pool/>
# BY 2030 HOSPITALS MAY BE A THING OF THE PAST
<http://www.globalpossibilities.org/by-2030-hospitals-may-be-a-thing-of-the-past/>
# BUILDING COMMUNITY RESILIENCE FROM THE GROUND UP
<http://www.globalpossibilities.org/building-community-resilience-from-the-ground-up/>
# DRINKING WATER ON INDIGENOUS LAND, MORE VIOLATIONS, LESS EPA
<http://www.globalpossibilities.org/drinking-water-on-indigenous-land-more-violations-less-epa/>


    Best of the week

  *
    Most Read
    <http://www.alternet.org/economy/what-people-who-are-homeless-want-you-know-about-their-lives?qt-best_of_the_week=0#qt-best_of_the_week>
  *
    Most Emailed

    <http://www.alternet.org/economy/what-people-who-are-homeless-want-you-know-about-their-lives?qt-best_of_the_week=1#qt-best_of_the_week>
  *
    Most Discussed

    <http://www.alternet.org/economy/what-people-who-are-homeless-want-you-know-about-their-lives?qt-best_of_the_week=2#qt-best_of_the_week>
  *
    On Reddit

    <http://www.alternet.org/economy/what-people-who-are-homeless-want-you-know-about-their-lives?qt-best_of_the_week=3#qt-best_of_the_week>
  *
    On Digg

    <http://www.alternet.org/economy/what-people-who-are-homeless-want-you-know-about-their-lives?qt-best_of_the_week=4#qt-best_of_the_week>

 1.
    <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/michael-moore-dont-call-yourself-christian-if-you-wont-oppose-bigots-trumps-america>


        Michael Moore: Don't Call Yourself a Christian If You Won't
        Oppose Bigots in Trump's America
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/michael-moore-dont-call-yourself-christian-if-you-wont-oppose-bigots-trumps-america>


          Tom Boggioni <http://www.alternet.org/authors/tom-boggioni> /
    Raw Story <http://rawstory.com/>


    Displayed Publishing Date: Sun, 11/13/2016 - 07:08

 2.
    <http://www.alternet.org/grayzone-project/embattled-dnc-chief-explains-why-she-met-james-okeefe>


        Embattled DNC Chief Explains Why She Spoke with James O'Keefe
        <http://www.alternet.org/grayzone-project/embattled-dnc-chief-explains-why-she-met-james-okeefe>


          Sarah Lazare <http://www.alternet.org/authors/sarah-lazare-0>
    / AlterNet <http://alternet.org/>


    Displayed Publishing Date: Sun, 11/13/2016 - 07:25

 3.
    <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/trump-didnt-win-election-hillary-lost-it>


        Trump Didn't Win the Election, Hillary Lost It
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/trump-didnt-win-election-hillary-lost-it>


          Guy T. Saperstein
          <http://www.alternet.org/authors/guy-t-saperstein> / AlterNet
    <http://alternet.org/>


    Displayed Publishing Date: Sat, 11/12/2016 - 09:20

 4.
    <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/right-cue-media-begins-normalize-trump>


        Right on Cue, Media Begins to Normalize Trump
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/right-cue-media-begins-normalize-trump>


          Adam Johnson <http://www.alternet.org/authors/adam-johnson-0>
    / AlterNet <http://alternet.org/>


    Displayed Publishing Date: Sun, 11/13/2016 - 07:47

 5.
    <http://www.alternet.org/news-amp-politics/chomsky-trumps-win-puts-govt-hands-most-dangerous-organization-world-history>


        Chomsky: Trump's Win Puts Govt in the Hands of the 'Most
        Dangerous Organization in World History'
        <http://www.alternet.org/news-amp-politics/chomsky-trumps-win-puts-govt-hands-most-dangerous-organization-world-history>


          Tom Boggioni <http://www.alternet.org/authors/tom-boggioni> /
    Raw Story <http://rawstory.com/>


    Displayed Publishing Date: Mon, 11/14/2016 - 14:37

 6.
    <http://www.alternet.org/activism/michael-moore-wants-lead-anti-donald-trump-resistance-will-dwarf-occupy-wall-street>


        Michael Moore Wants to Lead an Anti-Donald Trump Resistance
        'That Will Dwarf Occupy Wall Street'
        <http://www.alternet.org/activism/michael-moore-wants-lead-anti-donald-trump-resistance-will-dwarf-occupy-wall-street>


          Brendan Gauthier
          <http://www.alternet.org/authors/brendan-gauthier> / Salon
    <http://www.salon.com/2014/11/09/the_end_of_the_world_diet_inside_the_crazy_world_of_survivalist_cuisine/>


    Displayed Publishing Date: Sat, 11/12/2016 - 09:10

 7.
    <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/fascism-rising>


        Fascism Rising
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/fascism-rising>


          Stephen Hopgood
          <http://www.alternet.org/authors/stephen-hopgood> / Open
    Democracy <https://www.opendemocracy.net/>


    Displayed Publishing Date: Sat, 11/12/2016 - 08:17

 8.
    <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/white-flight-reality-inside-racist-panic-fueled-donald-trumps-victory>


        White Flight From Reality: Inside the Racist Panic that Fueled
        Donald Trump's Victory
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/white-flight-reality-inside-racist-panic-fueled-donald-trumps-victory>


          David Masciotra
          <http://www.alternet.org/authors/david-masciotra> / Salon
    <http://www.salon.com/2014/11/09/the_end_of_the_world_diet_inside_the_crazy_world_of_survivalist_cuisine/>


    Displayed Publishing Date: Sat, 11/12/2016 - 13:39

 9.
    <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/yes-white-male-anger-fueled-trumps-victory-was-real-it-isnt-valid-0>


        Yes, the White Male Anger that Fueled Trump’s Victory Was
        Real—But It Isn’t Valid
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/yes-white-male-anger-fueled-trumps-victory-was-real-it-isnt-valid-0>


          Amanda Marcotte
          <http://www.alternet.org/authors/amanda-marcotte-0> / Salon
    <http://www.salon.com/2014/11/09/the_end_of_the_world_diet_inside_the_crazy_world_of_survivalist_cuisine/>


    Displayed Publishing Date: Sat, 11/12/2016 - 10:31

10.
    <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/john-oliver-responds-trump-presidency-what-fck-do-we-do-now-two-things>


        John Oliver Reacts to Trump's Victory: 'What the F*ck Do We Do
        Now?' (Two Things)
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/john-oliver-responds-trump-presidency-what-fck-do-we-do-now-two-things>


          Alexandra Rosenmann
          <http://www.alternet.org/authors/alexandra-rosenmann> /
    AlterNet <http://alternet.org/>


    Displayed Publishing Date: Mon, 11/14/2016 - 04:42

Today's Top Stories

 1.
      * News & Politics <http://www.alternet.org/news>


        Chomsky: Trump's Win Puts Govt in the Hands of the 'Most
        Dangerous Organization in World History'
        <http://www.alternet.org/news-amp-politics/chomsky-trumps-win-puts-govt-hands-most-dangerous-organization-world-history>

 2.
      * World <http://www.alternet.org/world>


        American Empire in Chaos: Is Trump the Ultimate Blowback From
        Our Never Ending Wars?
        <http://www.alternet.org/world/american-empire-chaos-trump-ultimate-blowback-our-never-ending-wars>

 3.
      * Election 2016 <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016>


        Love Will Trump Hate, Say Oakland Protesters
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/love-will-trump-hate-say-oakland-protesters>

 4.
      * The Right Wing <http://www.alternet.org/right-wing>


        Even Glenn Beck Calls Trump's Chief Advisor Steve Bannon 'a
        Terrifying Man'
        <http://www.alternet.org/right-wing/even-glenn-beck-calls-trumps-chief-advisor-steve-bannon-terrifying-man>

 5.
      * Education <http://www.alternet.org/education>


        Holocaust Scholar Suspended from Teaching Job for Comparing
        Trump to Hitler
        <http://www.alternet.org/education/holocaust-scholar-suspended-teaching-job-comparing-trump-hitler>

 6.
      * Election 2016 <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016>


        Donald Trump's Transition Team Is a Sordid New Swamp of
        Lobbyists, Donors, Family and Republican Retreads
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/ultimate-inside-job-donald-trumps-transition-team-sordid-new-swamp-lobbyists-donors>

 7.
      * Election 2016 <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016>


        Krugman: Trump Could Make Some Right Economic Decisions for All
        the Wrong Reasons
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/krugman-trump-could-make-some-right-economic-decisions-all-wrong-reasons>

 8.
      * News & Politics <http://www.alternet.org/news>


        Egads! Ben Carson for Dept of Education?
        <http://www.alternet.org/news-amp-politics/egads-ben-carson-dept-education>

 9.
      * News & Politics <http://www.alternet.org/news>


        Our Sexist-in-Chief: Telltale Signs of a Misogynist In the Era
        of Trump
        <http://www.alternet.org/news-amp-politics/our-sexist-chief-telltale-signs-misogynist-era-trump>

10.
      * Election 2016 <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016>


        The Big Trump Media Story: Bannon and a Crew of Dangerous
        Propagandists Are in the Cockpit of National Power
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/heres-big-trump-media-story>

11.
      * Election 2016 <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016>


        John Oliver Reacts to Trump's Victory: 'What the F*ck Do We Do
        Now?' (Two Things)
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/john-oliver-responds-trump-presidency-what-fck-do-we-do-now-two-things>

12.
      * Election 2016 <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016>


        Donald Trump's Dark Promise: We Will Deport Two to Three Million
        People
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/donald-trumps-dark-promise-we-will-deport-two-three-million-people>

13.
      *


        'Let Me Go Home, Not Die Here!' With Trump Headed to White
        House, Obama's Prison Clemency Program More Urgent Than Ever
        <http://www.alternet.org/let-me-go-home-not-die-here-trump-headed-white-house-obamas-prison-clemency-program-more-urgent-ever>

14.
      * Election 2016 <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016>


        Yep, Race Really Did Trump Economics: A Data Dive on His
        Supporters Reveals Deep Racial Animosity
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/yep-race-really-did-trump-economics-data-dive-his-supporters-reveals-deep-racial>

15.
      * Election 2016 <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016>


        Right on Cue, Media Begins to Normalize Trump
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/right-cue-media-begins-normalize-trump>

16.
      * Election 2016 <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016>


        The Internet Fueled White Rage, But It Can Help Conquer It Too
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/internet-fueled-white-rage-it-can-help-conquer-it-too>

17.
      * Election 2016 <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016>


        Look at Where Celebrity and Reality TV-Driven News Have Taken
        Us: Real Journalism Is Rooted in Your Local Reality
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/all-journalism-local>

18.
      * Election 2016 <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016>


        Muslim in America Under President Trump: We Will Endure This
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/muslim-america-under-president-trump-we-will-endure>

19.
      * Sex & Relationships <http://www.alternet.org/sex>


        9 Ways Female Entrepreneurs Are Making Your Vagina's Health a
        Priority
        <http://www.alternet.org/sex-amp-relationships/9-ways-female-entrepreneurs-are-making-your-vaginas-health-priority>

20.
      * Election 2016 <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016>


        Van Jones Outlines the Horrors We'll See Under President Trump
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/we-are-track-now-tragedy-van-jones-outlines-horrors-well-see-under-president-trump>

21.
      * Election 2016 <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016>


        'Americans Are Terrified': Jake Tapper Makes Paul Ryan Answer
        for Wave Pro-Trump Hate Crimes
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/americans-are-terrified-jake-tapper-makes-paul-ryan-answer-wave-pro-trump-hate-crimes>

22.
      * News & Politics <http://www.alternet.org/news>


        Don't Ask Bernie Sanders If He Could Have Beaten Trump
        <http://www.alternet.org/news-amp-politics/dont-ask-bernie-sanders-if-he-could-have-beaten-trump>

23.
      * Election 2016 <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016>


        Why the Trump Effect Could Increase Bullying
        <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/why-trump-effect-could-increase-bullying>

<https://www.rtqscore.com/?ptr=Alternet.org&logo=%2F%2Fwww.rtqscore.com%2Fbin%2Fuploads%2F2016%2F04%2Falternet.png&form=%2F%2Fwww.rtqscore.com%2Fbin%2Fuploads%2F2016%2F04%2Fniccosolicitorsdisc.pdf>


RECOMMENDED

  *
    <http://t.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/ck?url=http%3A%2F%2Fviralmehappy.com%2F2016%2F11%2F09%2Fdwayne-the-rock-johnson-is-gone%2F%3FUTM_PAGEURL%3DNT%26UTM_PAGEDOMAIN%3Dwww.alternet.org%26UTM_PLACEMENT%3D2FldgJb_ei62tiXncisOZZxT6sS9aPJe1PkL0WE7%26UTM_REF%3DNT%26UTM_CAMP%3DCPCDESKTOP&data=NmM1Yzg5ODU1NWIzMWMzZWIyZmQ1OTMxNjEwYmE3NWY5YmFjMzI3MTRhODZiMjkxOWU3OWQzNzU4M2EyNDhlYjI1YTBlM2ZhYTk4Mjc4NmQxYWQxYTU5MTA0NzFjNjEyN2Y3ZTE3NDQ0OGVkMjk3ZGUzYmNkM2YzYzI0OTczZmI3YWRkMmM1YWE0ZGZlMzJiNDRjMGQ4NjA5ODhiZjM2ZDU0NWY4MWY3NTBkMTI1YjcyMDBkNjI3NzczNDg2ZGFmOTljM2EzYWU4YjBlYzQzMDJhZDA2MDNhMGNlNDJkYmM1ZTA5YmQyYTI4N2QzMTFhMTU0MGMzNjU4OWZmMDY4ZmIwNzZkZmIyMGRkNTJiMGJlMWI5YjBkOTQ3MWQ2MWVjMjE0ZjQ1NzM4MTVkOWE0ZjViMTU0OWY5YThkOGM5NWIxMTljOTMyNjM4YWE0YmFiNDc1NzJlYTFkMDk3MTUzMg%3D%3D&sid=62a4a3daa9f04ea5ba7e34f20d2aa9aa_47b08ba9>

    Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson is Gone!
    <http://t.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/ck?url=http%3A%2F%2Fviralmehappy.com%2F2016%2F11%2F09%2Fdwayne-the-rock-johnson-is-gone%2F%3FUTM_PAGEURL%3DNT%26UTM_PAGEDOMAIN%3Dwww.alternet.org%26UTM_PLACEMENT%3D2FldgJb_ei62tiXncisOZZxT6sS9aPJe1PkL0WE7%26UTM_REF%3DNT%26UTM_CAMP%3DCPCDESKTOP&data=NmM1Yzg5ODU1NWIzMWMzZWIyZmQ1OTMxNjEwYmE3NWY5YmFjMzI3MTRhODZiMjkxOWU3OWQzNzU4M2EyNDhlYjI1YTBlM2ZhYTk4Mjc4NmQxYWQxYTU5MTA0NzFjNjEyN2Y3ZTE3NDQ0OGVkMjk3ZGUzYmNkM2YzYzI0OTczZmI3YWRkMmM1YWE0ZGZlMzJiNDRjMGQ4NjA5ODhiZjM2ZDU0NWY4MWY3NTBkMTI1YjcyMDBkNjI3NzczNDg2ZGFmOTljM2EzYWU4YjBlYzQzMDJhZDA2MDNhMGNlNDJkYmM1ZTA5YmQyYTI4N2QzMTFhMTU0MGMzNjU4OWZmMDY4ZmIwNzZkZmIyMGRkNTJiMGJlMWI5YjBkOTQ3MWQ2MWVjMjE0ZjQ1NzM4MTVkOWE0ZjViMTU0OWY5YThkOGM5NWIxMTljOTMyNjM4YWE0YmFiNDc1NzJlYTFkMDk3MTUzMg%3D%3D&sid=62a4a3daa9f04ea5ba7e34f20d2aa9aa_47b08ba9>

  *
    <http://t.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/ck?url=http%3A%2F%2Ftrk.ii1.website%2Fblog%2Fed%2Fmiracle.php%3Fs%3DNEW1_2_2FldgJb_ei62tiXncisOZZxT6sS9aPJe1PkL0WE7_www.alternet.org%26e%3D&data=YWZmZTM1YmE4MWRhNDYyMzRiYzVhYmQ5ZjUyZjRkOTg4MWU0NGIyYzU0NTcyOWUxYjc2ZGE0Nzc2Mzc0MmZkYTQyYmNiYTAxODZhZTIxNzg3ZWE2M2YwYTlkMGZjMzdjYjkwOGU4ZGE5NGI4NWExYzkwNzQ2MDgzNjJhMGViNDM5OTg3OWY3NDJkNTQ5OWNjMjIwZjRjYTVmMzQwNTgyMjQyMjczOGI5OTRjZTAyYjY2NDIzOGFhZTc1ZTE2ZjBiMTMxOTUxYjhjZTE4MjdjYjcxZGQzNWU1ODY2ZmQ3NWU2MzY1NjU5NzYxMDI5NDBkMTVkNmMxY2Q2M2E4Y2NiMzcxMWQ5YjExNDNjY2JlMDkwNjMyZjY5OTczMTQwZDU3YTcwMTIzOWNjNmM0MWMwNTVmZDc2NmMwNWZmY2RiNTMxZTIwNzQzMzQ3NjdlNWFkZWFkNTE3Yzg4NGNlOGFlZg%3D%3D&sid=62a4a3daa9f04ea5ba7e34f20d2aa9aa_a187c824>

    1 Strange Trick That Kills ED - Viagra Hates This
    <http://t.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/ck?url=http%3A%2F%2Ftrk.ii1.website%2Fblog%2Fed%2Fmiracle.php%3Fs%3DNEW1_2_2FldgJb_ei62tiXncisOZZxT6sS9aPJe1PkL0WE7_www.alternet.org%26e%3D&data=YWZmZTM1YmE4MWRhNDYyMzRiYzVhYmQ5ZjUyZjRkOTg4MWU0NGIyYzU0NTcyOWUxYjc2ZGE0Nzc2Mzc0MmZkYTQyYmNiYTAxODZhZTIxNzg3ZWE2M2YwYTlkMGZjMzdjYjkwOGU4ZGE5NGI4NWExYzkwNzQ2MDgzNjJhMGViNDM5OTg3OWY3NDJkNTQ5OWNjMjIwZjRjYTVmMzQwNTgyMjQyMjczOGI5OTRjZTAyYjY2NDIzOGFhZTc1ZTE2ZjBiMTMxOTUxYjhjZTE4MjdjYjcxZGQzNWU1ODY2ZmQ3NWU2MzY1NjU5NzYxMDI5NDBkMTVkNmMxY2Q2M2E4Y2NiMzcxMWQ5YjExNDNjY2JlMDkwNjMyZjY5OTczMTQwZDU3YTcwMTIzOWNjNmM0MWMwNTVmZDc2NmMwNWZmY2RiNTMxZTIwNzQzMzQ3NjdlNWFkZWFkNTE3Yzg4NGNlOGFlZg%3D%3D&sid=62a4a3daa9f04ea5ba7e34f20d2aa9aa_a187c824>

  *
    <http://t.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/ck?url=http%3A%2F%2Fpreventionpulse.com%2Flifestyle%2Fthe-15-cancer-causing-foods-you-probably-eat-every-day%2F&data=ZGY2NzI4YzJlNmE5NGJjZTVhOTNjYmM4YTA1ZDljZjAzNDZkYzZlODlhN2QzNzAyMTlkMjlhNWZiOGYxNjgyN2QwZDdjMGIzZmRkNTA4NmMxNjg1MDY1OTgxNDgyMmJlZDc2Y2ZjNzZhMjZmZGRkMGFmZGVjMDg2NjFhOGI5MjEyZGZiYjA4NDJjNjc3MWQyNmQzMDk1NmY0MTY5OGJmNzdiYjBlZmI2NWY4MzI2NmMzZDM0OTI4NTE1ZjQzMDk3ODdjZTAyZjUxZWExYmFmNmQ0YjEwYmRkMTM2NzdjOWY1OWRkYjE1OWRkZmFhYTVhYjI1ODU4OGM0N2U2NDU4MTIzNjhhY2M2YTNhZjFhYTY4MDM2NGIxMjFmN2E2MTNkOWRhZDc2YjI4MjUwZjRlM2Q1MzlhNDc1NGRjNTAyYWIxYjIxNDk4MmU3ZDk2NWUzM2VmODU4ZWNlNGU0Y2RmMg%3D%3D&sid=62a4a3daa9f04ea5ba7e34f20d2aa9aa_28ea53a2>

    15 Cancer Causing Foods You Probably Eat Every Day
    <http://t.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/ck?url=http%3A%2F%2Fpreventionpulse.com%2Flifestyle%2Fthe-15-cancer-causing-foods-you-probably-eat-every-day%2F&data=ZGY2NzI4YzJlNmE5NGJjZTVhOTNjYmM4YTA1ZDljZjAzNDZkYzZlODlhN2QzNzAyMTlkMjlhNWZiOGYxNjgyN2QwZDdjMGIzZmRkNTA4NmMxNjg1MDY1OTgxNDgyMmJlZDc2Y2ZjNzZhMjZmZGRkMGFmZGVjMDg2NjFhOGI5MjEyZGZiYjA4NDJjNjc3MWQyNmQzMDk1NmY0MTY5OGJmNzdiYjBlZmI2NWY4MzI2NmMzZDM0OTI4NTE1ZjQzMDk3ODdjZTAyZjUxZWExYmFmNmQ0YjEwYmRkMTM2NzdjOWY1OWRkYjE1OWRkZmFhYTVhYjI1ODU4OGM0N2U2NDU4MTIzNjhhY2M2YTNhZjFhYTY4MDM2NGIxMjFmN2E2MTNkOWRhZDc2YjI4MjUwZjRlM2Q1MzlhNDc1NGRjNTAyYWIxYjIxNDk4MmU3ZDk2NWUzM2VmODU4ZWNlNGU0Y2RmMg%3D%3D&sid=62a4a3daa9f04ea5ba7e34f20d2aa9aa_28ea53a2>

  *
    <http://t.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/ck?url=http%3A%2F%2Ftrack.gmftrk.com%2Ff73106a5-815e-4ba9-9f22-5169a9e604af%3Fdomain%3Dwww.alternet.org%26ad%3Dad5&data=NDdmYzEyYWI3ODMyMTMxMzVlYjliN2RiNTYzNjc5YThmNmE2MmIwMWY5YmMwNTk1ZGFkZGI0NjI1YWVmNzhjMTJhYWZhYjQ3YTIxNTg1N2EyZjJlYTc3MTE4ODE2NWQ4MzRhMjkzZmRhOWYwM2U0YmZlODc3NzQ3ZTQ1ZWI4NmE4NTJiZWUzOWM4MDMxNDY3NzY4YmI4YjI2OGM2MDkyZjY3ZjVkZGIyMTJlMzU2MmI2ZGQ4OTZmMDExNWY0MWVmZDFhZmIxNGQzMjJmMDcxYTdkNDNlYTQ2NzFmMGM5ZTQ0MjM3ZDQ3YWI3YTdjZTA0N2RmZTFhNzI5ZmZiZTA1ZjdjYjAxOTM3ODdlNzUwODE3MGM0NjcwYjIzNWNlYTc2NTAwYTBkNTVmMWNiODE1NWZmYjIyZDkxZTc1MzdhZWFkNzcxYmIwZjY0M2E1MTYwYjliYTVlN2RmMDA2ZTEzYQ%3D%3D&sid=62a4a3daa9f04ea5ba7e34f20d2aa9aa_aff17dec>

    #1 Tinnitus Method ''Ends'' The Ringing
    <http://t.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/ck?url=http%3A%2F%2Ftrack.gmftrk.com%2Ff73106a5-815e-4ba9-9f22-5169a9e604af%3Fdomain%3Dwww.alternet.org%26ad%3Dad5&data=NDdmYzEyYWI3ODMyMTMxMzVlYjliN2RiNTYzNjc5YThmNmE2MmIwMWY5YmMwNTk1ZGFkZGI0NjI1YWVmNzhjMTJhYWZhYjQ3YTIxNTg1N2EyZjJlYTc3MTE4ODE2NWQ4MzRhMjkzZmRhOWYwM2U0YmZlODc3NzQ3ZTQ1ZWI4NmE4NTJiZWUzOWM4MDMxNDY3NzY4YmI4YjI2OGM2MDkyZjY3ZjVkZGIyMTJlMzU2MmI2ZGQ4OTZmMDExNWY0MWVmZDFhZmIxNGQzMjJmMDcxYTdkNDNlYTQ2NzFmMGM5ZTQ0MjM3ZDQ3YWI3YTdjZTA0N2RmZTFhNzI5ZmZiZTA1ZjdjYjAxOTM3ODdlNzUwODE3MGM0NjcwYjIzNWNlYTc2NTAwYTBkNTVmMWNiODE1NWZmYjIyZDkxZTc1MzdhZWFkNzcxYmIwZjY0M2E1MTYwYjliYTVlN2RmMDA2ZTEzYQ%3D%3D&sid=62a4a3daa9f04ea5ba7e34f20d2aa9aa_aff17dec>

  *
    <http://t.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/ck?url=http%3A%2F%2Fht8n8.trackvoluum.com%2Fb40fc5bb-70d3-40b2-b2aa-ef5422777f65%3Fkeyword%3D%257Bkeyword%257D%26bidmatchtype%3D%257Bbidmatchtype%257D%26matchtype%3D%257Bmatchtype%257D%26adid%3D%257Badid%257D%26creative%3D%257Bcreative%257D%26keywordid%3D%257Bkeywordid%257D%26orderitemid%3D%257Borderitemid%257D%26network%3D%257Bnetwork%257D%26device%3D%257Bdevice%257D%26region%3D%257Bregion%257D%26clickid%3D%257Bclickid%257D&data=ZTRlOTU5YTA0NjM5YzJhMjcwNjdlMDI0ODRiYTQzZmY4YmQxMDBiNDNhZTVhNDE5ZTM1MGRkMzEzZGZlNGFlMGM5NDRmZmM0OWEzYTViOGNhNjExMjA5MWY5N2NmOWMwMjYzYmY4MDhkYmU0MmQzZjEzNGY3Yzk1YWM3ZGFhNjBjYWU0Yzc5NWJjNWFkNjFlOGE2YWU0ZmRmNDUzMjBhYTY3MjYyNGRiZmU4ZWEyOGYwYWJlODg3ZWYyMzIxMzc3MDlkZDY1NDYwNWM0M2Q1ZWQ0NjBlZDYxYzcxM2MzMmQ0YWYwMWNiMmRlZDdiMWZkYTg0NWY3MDE3YmMzNDM2ZWNlODA4MjMwODQ3Zjg0ZjBiNWFhMzk3ZTllZDFhZmM5NDE2ODQwYTE2MWQ0OGQyZmFlM2ZhOTcwMjhhMDM3MDI%3D&sid=62a4a3daa9f04ea5ba7e34f20d2aa9aa_db9c17c9>

    The President's Daugher Picked An Atrocious Time For This Scandal
    <http://t.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/ck?url=http%3A%2F%2Fht8n8.trackvoluum.com%2Fb40fc5bb-70d3-40b2-b2aa-ef5422777f65%3Fkeyword%3D%257Bkeyword%257D%26bidmatchtype%3D%257Bbidmatchtype%257D%26matchtype%3D%257Bmatchtype%257D%26adid%3D%257Badid%257D%26creative%3D%257Bcreative%257D%26keywordid%3D%257Bkeywordid%257D%26orderitemid%3D%257Borderitemid%257D%26network%3D%257Bnetwork%257D%26device%3D%257Bdevice%257D%26region%3D%257Bregion%257D%26clickid%3D%257Bclickid%257D&data=ZTRlOTU5YTA0NjM5YzJhMjcwNjdlMDI0ODRiYTQzZmY4YmQxMDBiNDNhZTVhNDE5ZTM1MGRkMzEzZGZlNGFlMGM5NDRmZmM0OWEzYTViOGNhNjExMjA5MWY5N2NmOWMwMjYzYmY4MDhkYmU0MmQzZjEzNGY3Yzk1YWM3ZGFhNjBjYWU0Yzc5NWJjNWFkNjFlOGE2YWU0ZmRmNDUzMjBhYTY3MjYyNGRiZmU4ZWEyOGYwYWJlODg3ZWYyMzIxMzc3MDlkZDY1NDYwNWM0M2Q1ZWQ0NjBlZDYxYzcxM2MzMmQ0YWYwMWNiMmRlZDdiMWZkYTg0NWY3MDE3YmMzNDM2ZWNlODA4MjMwODQ3Zjg0ZjBiNWFhMzk3ZTllZDFhZmM5NDE2ODQwYTE2MWQ0OGQyZmFlM2ZhOTcwMjhhMDM3MDI%3D&sid=62a4a3daa9f04ea5ba7e34f20d2aa9aa_db9c17c9>

  *
    <http://t.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/ck?url=http%3A%2F%2Ftrack.gmftrk.com%2F54270ae3-203d-4fdc-a040-c81735ea0c70%3Fdomain%3Dwww.alternet.org%26ad%3Dad1&data=NGUxOGQ3NjdmMWMzMGZhYjZkMjg4NDhmMGE4ZTBkOTM4Yjc3NDU5MTcwOTVhZGZjMTNhM2RiN2RjNzA0ODU3ZTIzNjFlYTNkNjlmY2ZhMDdhMjgwYWYyM2QwMmRiMGZlYzZlMWFiYjVlMjhkZGU0NGVhOWI4ODc0NTZhZmYyY2E2MmNlYzVmNzI0MTJmZjUyOTE2Y2EwNDIyZjQ2NDhhN2VjOWUzZTI0NjQ1Y2FiNjVhMzcxMDdhYzQyMGY0NjdiNjkyMmE0MmUzN2QzNWU4ZjNiOThiY2U5ZjY2OWVjNmYxZmI1OTgzMTczYjAzNDY4MTgwYThkOGJmNWU3YjdmMzZhYTJjNjVkMjIxMDI2OTQ4NmU0ZmVjNzdiMzYxMjFiNDU3NTAzZDBkNzAwM2ZhNGY1ZjJlMzEzMjE2MGQ2ODI0OWJlNGM0OGZhNjMwNTdiYzgwNGFmZDc1NjU3OGExZQ%3D%3D&sid=62a4a3daa9f04ea5ba7e34f20d2aa9aa_e91f51a4>

    7x Lotto Winner: Lottery Isn't As Random As You Think
    <http://t.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/ck?url=http%3A%2F%2Ftrack.gmftrk.com%2F54270ae3-203d-4fdc-a040-c81735ea0c70%3Fdomain%3Dwww.alternet.org%26ad%3Dad1&data=NGUxOGQ3NjdmMWMzMGZhYjZkMjg4NDhmMGE4ZTBkOTM4Yjc3NDU5MTcwOTVhZGZjMTNhM2RiN2RjNzA0ODU3ZTIzNjFlYTNkNjlmY2ZhMDdhMjgwYWYyM2QwMmRiMGZlYzZlMWFiYjVlMjhkZGU0NGVhOWI4ODc0NTZhZmYyY2E2MmNlYzVmNzI0MTJmZjUyOTE2Y2EwNDIyZjQ2NDhhN2VjOWUzZTI0NjQ1Y2FiNjVhMzcxMDdhYzQyMGY0NjdiNjkyMmE0MmUzN2QzNWU4ZjNiOThiY2U5ZjY2OWVjNmYxZmI1OTgzMTczYjAzNDY4MTgwYThkOGJmNWU3YjdmMzZhYTJjNjVkMjIxMDI2OTQ4NmU0ZmVjNzdiMzYxMjFiNDU3NTAzZDBkNzAwM2ZhNGY1ZjJlMzEzMjE2MGQ2ODI0OWJlNGM0OGZhNjMwNTdiYzgwNGFmZDc1NjU3OGExZQ%3D%3D&sid=62a4a3daa9f04ea5ba7e34f20d2aa9aa_e91f51a4>

  *
    <http://t.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/ck?url=http%3A%2F%2Ftrack.gmftrk.com%2F336b0ad8-a06d-4bf3-9e38-2727efd67653%3Fdomain%3Dwww.alternet.org%26ad%3Dad3&data=ZmMzNTFjOThjMTgyYTYzODc0MzQ5ZDllYjAzOTNhZjQ2ODkxNDlhMjQ2YWNiZDllNzAxNGE1NGM1ODRlYmRiOGU5MmZmMjRhNDA3ZTg0NjhmZjA3ODEyOGZjZGIyN2FjNjBkYWIzNTYzNzZiOTNhZjMyZThhZjhjNGM1NTRiZjc0ODIyM2VjYTlmMmU0NWMzYTBkMGEzM2RiMzQ1NmY0MjRmNTQ3ZGZkOGJkMjM1MjVjMjg1OWE2NThjNjJmYWEyMjJlZGIxZGM1OGUwNDMzNWVlNDc2MDQ5YjVmNjU4MGI4MDdiZTQ2N2U1NDcyMzlmYWQ2NGI2Y2IxM2Y5ZTUyZDNjYjMxMWVlNzZhM2E2ZDg0YzgyMjNlNjdjMTdjNWFkNzI3NGE3NGYwZGY0YTE1OGZhNGU4MzNhNzc5N2M0OTg1OGVhMjIyY2FmNDQ2N2ZjZjQwMjliNWYzODYxZDU2Ng%3D%3D&sid=62a4a3daa9f04ea5ba7e34f20d2aa9aa_68a7d8db>

    Odd Chinese Remedy 'Destroys' Nail Fungus in 1 Day
    <http://t.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/ck?url=http%3A%2F%2Ftrack.gmftrk.com%2F336b0ad8-a06d-4bf3-9e38-2727efd67653%3Fdomain%3Dwww.alternet.org%26ad%3Dad3&data=ZmMzNTFjOThjMTgyYTYzODc0MzQ5ZDllYjAzOTNhZjQ2ODkxNDlhMjQ2YWNiZDllNzAxNGE1NGM1ODRlYmRiOGU5MmZmMjRhNDA3ZTg0NjhmZjA3ODEyOGZjZGIyN2FjNjBkYWIzNTYzNzZiOTNhZjMyZThhZjhjNGM1NTRiZjc0ODIyM2VjYTlmMmU0NWMzYTBkMGEzM2RiMzQ1NmY0MjRmNTQ3ZGZkOGJkMjM1MjVjMjg1OWE2NThjNjJmYWEyMjJlZGIxZGM1OGUwNDMzNWVlNDc2MDQ5YjVmNjU4MGI4MDdiZTQ2N2U1NDcyMzlmYWQ2NGI2Y2IxM2Y5ZTUyZDNjYjMxMWVlNzZhM2E2ZDg0YzgyMjNlNjdjMTdjNWFkNzI3NGE3NGYwZGY0YTE1OGZhNGU4MzNhNzc5N2M0OTg1OGVhMjIyY2FmNDQ2N2ZjZjQwMjliNWYzODYxZDU2Ng%3D%3D&sid=62a4a3daa9f04ea5ba7e34f20d2aa9aa_68a7d8db>

  *
    <http://t.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/ck?url=http%3A%2F%2Fht8n8.trackvoluum.com%2Fd7c5202d-0515-47b3-9001-9e270fcd83e9%3Fkeyword%3D%257Bkeyword%257D&data=NmNjYjU0N2M4MTlhZjEwYjExZDFmNTZmMzE1YzhkNTFhZTg0NWZkNzMyZjA1NzI0NWQxYzdhNDllYWFiYTI0ODcxMGE2N2JiY2RjN2MwZTNjNzAzZDUxZmMwM2Y3OThhMzdiMjZlZDQ4ZDMyY2ViYTQ3NDZjM2JjZDZkOGZiZTQ2ODc3ZDBkOTRhYzhlMzE5ZGY3MjgwNjY1NzJhMWM2YzNiMWEwY2M4ODg3MTVjNDA5ZmZkM2U3Mjg2YmFiNWQxMDI2MmFlNmZiNzQ2MTlmMjQwMzZkMmNmMDdkYzkxZGVmYTNlODI3YjAwOWM1MjRkM2Q1ZmVmOWRkOGIwOWEyMjNhNThiZmIzM2I5ZTA4YTZmODIzNzk3ZGE4YjQ1OTU2MTljYjFkNTk0MGU2M2IzMmI4NTQxNTllZDUwOWE4MTI%3D&sid=62a4a3daa9f04ea5ba7e34f20d2aa9aa_da1cada4>

    The New First Lady Gets Caught Using This $5 Miracle Cream, Angers
    New President Again!
    <http://t.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/ck?url=http%3A%2F%2Fht8n8.trackvoluum.com%2Fd7c5202d-0515-47b3-9001-9e270fcd83e9%3Fkeyword%3D%257Bkeyword%257D&data=NmNjYjU0N2M4MTlhZjEwYjExZDFmNTZmMzE1YzhkNTFhZTg0NWZkNzMyZjA1NzI0NWQxYzdhNDllYWFiYTI0ODcxMGE2N2JiY2RjN2MwZTNjNzAzZDUxZmMwM2Y3OThhMzdiMjZlZDQ4ZDMyY2ViYTQ3NDZjM2JjZDZkOGZiZTQ2ODc3ZDBkOTRhYzhlMzE5ZGY3MjgwNjY1NzJhMWM2YzNiMWEwY2M4ODg3MTVjNDA5ZmZkM2U3Mjg2YmFiNWQxMDI2MmFlNmZiNzQ2MTlmMjQwMzZkMmNmMDdkYzkxZGVmYTNlODI3YjAwOWM1MjRkM2Q1ZmVmOWRkOGIwOWEyMjNhNThiZmIzM2I5ZTA4YTZmODIzNzk3ZGE4YjQ1OTU2MTljYjFkNTk0MGU2M2IzMmI4NTQxNTllZDUwOWE4MTI%3D&sid=62a4a3daa9f04ea5ba7e34f20d2aa9aa_da1cada4>

  *
    <http://t.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/ck?url=http%3A%2F%2Ftrack.gmftrk.com%2Fca311f9c-fc81-44da-bc7d-3637432f21b5%3Fdomain%3Dwww.alternet.org%26ad%3Dad1&data=NDBmZDAyZTc4Yjg2OTc0OTJmM2EwZTkzZWRhMzAzZmIwOGI2ZDEzNWY4ZjY4MzRmNzVhZmNmY2FhOGMwNzEwZmNkN2IyMjBjYWRlN2VjYjNhODM0OGZjYzI5NzAzMDU0YWQ2NGI2ZWQ1ZGIyY2MwY2Y2NDFlNmEzODYxODIzNzMxNTNkZTExOTAxOGIwZjkxOTFhNzI3Mjk2MzBmOTVlMmFhOGRjYWNmZGM3ZmQxZjZmZTNlMTIxMGY0NjM1ZmFhOTQyYzcyNjE4MjFmOTczMjEzOGRiMDc5MTFkNjA3MzQ3M2Y1MDlhOWFjZjkwYjYxZGU4MTQ3ZTFlNDQ0NWJmNzRhOWUzNjZjYmU2MmRlZmI5YWM0M2E2YzVkNzQ0ZjU2MDk1OGJmZWI3YjkzYTEzMjI5Yjc3OWY3NTE4NTU4M2E4NDU5OTg3NTY3ODhjNGZhNDc0MGQ0NjdhYzQxZWM2MA%3D%3D&sid=62a4a3daa9f04ea5ba7e34f20d2aa9aa_4aca816c>

    12x More Efficient Than Solar Panels?
    <http://t.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/ck?url=http%3A%2F%2Ftrack.gmftrk.com%2Fca311f9c-fc81-44da-bc7d-3637432f21b5%3Fdomain%3Dwww.alternet.org%26ad%3Dad1&data=NDBmZDAyZTc4Yjg2OTc0OTJmM2EwZTkzZWRhMzAzZmIwOGI2ZDEzNWY4ZjY4MzRmNzVhZmNmY2FhOGMwNzEwZmNkN2IyMjBjYWRlN2VjYjNhODM0OGZjYzI5NzAzMDU0YWQ2NGI2ZWQ1ZGIyY2MwY2Y2NDFlNmEzODYxODIzNzMxNTNkZTExOTAxOGIwZjkxOTFhNzI3Mjk2MzBmOTVlMmFhOGRjYWNmZGM3ZmQxZjZmZTNlMTIxMGY0NjM1ZmFhOTQyYzcyNjE4MjFmOTczMjEzOGRiMDc5MTFkNjA3MzQ3M2Y1MDlhOWFjZjkwYjYxZGU4MTQ3ZTFlNDQ0NWJmNzRhOWUzNjZjYmU2MmRlZmI5YWM0M2E2YzVkNzQ0ZjU2MDk1OGJmZWI3YjkzYTEzMjI5Yjc3OWY3NTE4NTU4M2E4NDU5OTg3NTY3ODhjNGZhNDc0MGQ0NjdhYzQxZWM2MA%3D%3D&sid=62a4a3daa9f04ea5ba7e34f20d2aa9aa_4aca816c>

  *
    <http://t.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/ck?url=http%3A%2F%2Ftrack.gmftrk.com%2F7c4ee85c-5f1e-4e7c-86ba-8bb0009a19a7%3Fdomain%3Dwww.alternet.org%26ad%3Dad1&data=Yjg2MDM2MmU0NzE4ZWZkNGE4ZGQ2MmE3ZWMxMDgwNzMxYTFkMTdkM2ZmMmY3ZDUwNTJkOTUzMzIxNGVjYTFhYzgxMTE5ZDlmYzVhMDgxZjlkMWIzM2U3YjZiMDQ1YzVkY2Q1ODRiYTdkYTNlZmYzMmIyYzlmNGI1N2NmOWUxNDg0NzhmZmM2MDg4NzMxNzY5NmJhYTcwNWUzOGJiZmUzNjI2YjdiNDBmMzI2M2M2MWQ4MTgyYjFjMDU1YWRkMmM3M2NiNjk4YjQ0ODJhMzU0ZWI1MDJkYTZhNWE1MzEzZDU2NzhhOTE5NGE4NzA3ZDM1ZjBhMzk3ODYxZThiZjI0NzBiY2U0OWU0YjYxNWFjMWY2ZjUwYTljOTI2ZTg4YzEyNmFjMDhiNTM1MTZiNWZmNTFjNzQ1Mzc5MzZmMDRiY2U3ZThhNTIxYzAwNDcxOGU2NjZlNzVkNWIyOTQ1M2VjNw%3D%3D&sid=62a4a3daa9f04ea5ba7e34f20d2aa9aa_b6867813>

    Do This Before Bed And You'll Never Need the Gym, Once Daily
    <http://t.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/ck?url=http%3A%2F%2Ftrack.gmftrk.com%2F7c4ee85c-5f1e-4e7c-86ba-8bb0009a19a7%3Fdomain%3Dwww.alternet.org%26ad%3Dad1&data=Yjg2MDM2MmU0NzE4ZWZkNGE4ZGQ2MmE3ZWMxMDgwNzMxYTFkMTdkM2ZmMmY3ZDUwNTJkOTUzMzIxNGVjYTFhYzgxMTE5ZDlmYzVhMDgxZjlkMWIzM2U3YjZiMDQ1YzVkY2Q1ODRiYTdkYTNlZmYzMmIyYzlmNGI1N2NmOWUxNDg0NzhmZmM2MDg4NzMxNzY5NmJhYTcwNWUzOGJiZmUzNjI2YjdiNDBmMzI2M2M2MWQ4MTgyYjFjMDU1YWRkMmM3M2NiNjk4YjQ0ODJhMzU0ZWI1MDJkYTZhNWE1MzEzZDU2NzhhOTE5NGE4NzA3ZDM1ZjBhMzk3ODYxZThiZjI0NzBiY2U0OWU0YjYxNWFjMWY2ZjUwYTljOTI2ZTg4YzEyNmFjMDhiNTM1MTZiNWZmNTFjNzQ1Mzc5MzZmMDRiY2U3ZThhNTIxYzAwNDcxOGU2NjZlNzVkNWIyOTQ1M2VjNw%3D%3D&sid=62a4a3daa9f04ea5ba7e34f20d2aa9aa_b6867813>


Powered by <https://www.newsmaxfeednetwork.com/>
FARK HEADLINES
<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2463019&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
WATCH: Stephen A. Smith Bashes Colin Kaepernick For Not Voting

<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2463019&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2473528&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
Financial Advice from a Loan Sharking Gangster

<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2473528&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2473549&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
Mary Jo White To Resign From SEC, Dramatically Cast Dodd-Frank Rulebook

<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2473549&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2472842&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
Drunk Iowa fan gets arrested, thinks she’s at a different game

<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2472842&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2466075&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
Pregnant Girlfriend Pours Boiling Water On FIU Tight End Jonnu Smith’s Head

<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2466075&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2294475&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
Surgeons Are Now Calling This A "Death Food"

<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2294475&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2470296&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
Kellyanne Conway Issues A Dark, Fascistic Warning To Harry Reid

<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2470296&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2453952&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
Reggie Bush Allegedly Paid This Woman $3 Million To Have an Abortion

<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2453952&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2470470&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
Trump responds to the protesters that have arisen across the country:
“Don’t be afraid”

<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2470470&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2465973&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
Ann Coulter: It's 1928 All Over Again!

<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2465973&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2470842&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
60 MINUTES INTERVIEW: The Trump Family Nailed It Through Condescending
Tone From “Media Queen” Leslie Stahl [Video]

<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2470842&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2453601&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
Eli Manning Uses Sexually Explicit Audible

<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2453601&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2445484&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
Cleveland Indians fan knocks Cubs fan back to 1908 with post-World Series KO

<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2445484&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2473598&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
Rob Gronkowski reportedly suffered punctured lung, could miss one game

<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2473598&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2469586&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
It’s time for Hillary Clinton supporters to grow up

<http://news.e-generator.com/newdata/news?ad=2469586&bl=83097&ct=adpreview&st=16&ab=jsapi&ag=20>
Alternet Originals
<http://www.alternet.org/sex-amp-relationships/12-pieces-hilariously-terrible-relationship-advice-wikihow-plus-illustrations>


    12 Pieces of Hilariously Terrible Relationship Advice From WikiHow
    (Plus Illustrations!)
    <http://www.alternet.org/sex-amp-relationships/12-pieces-hilariously-terrible-relationship-advice-wikihow-plus-illustrations>

<http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/obama-reportedly-has-hold-trumps-hand-because-hes-clueless-about-his-new-job>


    Obama Reportedly Has to Hold Trump's Hand Because He's Clueless
    About His New Job
    <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/obama-reportedly-has-hold-trumps-hand-because-hes-clueless-about-his-new-job>

<http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/defining-our-president-elect-bigot-xenophobe-racism-misogyny-top-list-merriam-webster>


    Defining Our President-Elect: 'Bigot,' 'Xenophobe,' 'Racism,'
    'Misogyny' Top List of Merriam-Webster Dictionary's Most Popular
    Searches
    <http://www.alternet.org/election-2016/defining-our-president-elect-bigot-xenophobe-racism-misogyny-top-list-merriam-webster>

  * ◀

    <http://www.alternet.org/>

[ X ]
Like Alternet on Facebook

  * Our Mission

    <http://www.alternet.org/about>
  * Who We Are

    <http://www.alternet.org/staff>
  * About IMI

    <http://www.alternet.org/the-independent-media-institute>
  * Foundation Support

    <http://www.alternet.org/alternets-supporting-foundations>
  * Press Information

    <http://www.alternet.org/press-information>
  * Writer Guidelines

    <http://www.alternet.org/writer-guidelines>
  * Privacy Policy

    <http://www.alternet.org/privacy-policy>
  * Advertise on AlterNet

    <http://www.alternet.org/advertise>
  * Contact Us

    <http://www.alternet.org/feedback>
  * Donate

    <https://donate.alternet.org/>
  * Login

    <http://www.alternet.org/user/login>

  * follow AlterNet on twitter

    <http://twitter.com/AlterNet>
  * be an AlterNet facebook fan

    <https://www.facebook.com/AlterNetNews>
  * subscribe to our rss

    <http://feeds.feedblitz.com/alternet_economy>

