
	Hoodline wordmark
	The "Hoodline" wordmark or logo, spelled out in a bold font.
	

<https://hoodline.com/>

  * News

    <https://hoodline.com/>
  * Events

    <https://hoodline.com/events>

//

  * Log in
    <https://hoodline.com/login?return_to=%2F2016%2F06%2Fkevin-adler-miracle-messages>

  * Sign up <https://hoodline.com/signup>

//


  A Conversation With Kevin Adler Of 'Miracle Messages'

Image

Kevin Adler of Miracle Messages. (Photo: Meaghan M. Mitchell/Hoodline)

Wed. June 29, 2016, 4:19pm
Icon user
Icon user
Headshot meaghan
by Meaghan M. Mitchell
@meaghan_m <http://twitter.com/meaghan_m>
Icon map
Icon map
neighborhoods
Citywide, Mid-Market <https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mid-market>,
SoMa <https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/soma>, Tenderloin
<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/tenderloin>
<https://hoodline.com/ads/131/187/2>

/[Editor's Note: Hoodline is participating in today's SF Homeless
Project <https://www.facebook.com/sfhomelessproject>, in which more than
70 area publications are each covering homelessness issues in their own
ways./

/While we already write about these issues often, we hope that our
stories today will add more neighborhood context to this very
complicated topic, and to the great work being published elsewhere. You
can read more about the project here
<http://www.sfgate.com/homeless/article/SF-Homeless-Project-Letter-to-the-City-8326254.php>.]/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Like many who relocate to San Francisco these days,  31-year-old Kevin
Adler came to pursue his passion as a social entrepreneur by running a
tech startup. While he was fascinated by technology and its
world-changing capacity, he was less interested in becoming a
billionaire than he was in making an impact.

Adler got his start with a fundraising platform for underserved high
school and community colleges, then later joined a friend in a venture
called EDTech Incubator, which helped build companies in the education
space. After two years, he decided he wanted to do something more
fulfilling, so he left his full-time job and started a project called
 “Homeless GoPro
<http://www.sfgate.com/bayarea/article/Homeless-GoPro-offers-1st-hand-look-on-S-F-5399732.php>,”
where homeless volunteers wear GoPro cameras, allowing viewers to see
the world from their perspective. His interest in homeless issues was
inspired in part by his uncle, who lived on and off the streets for 30
years.

Upon getting a lot of national media coverage, Adler realized that the
initiative revealed a wider need around the issue of storytelling and
connection. That's when he started a company called Miracle Messages
<http://www.miraclemessages.org/>. Hoodline caught up with Kevin to
discuss his passion behind the company. 

*What is Miracle Messages about?*

Miracle Messages helps individuals who are experiencing homelessness
reunite with their long-lost loved ones using social media, short video
messages, and really, the help of volunteers and neighbors.

This started about a year and a half ago. I took a walk down San
Francisco’s Market Street and asked every person I met who was living on
the street if they would like to leave a holiday message for a friend or
family member. I met a guy named Jeffrey Gottshall who hadn’t seen his
sister, niece or nephew in about 20 years. So he recorded a video,
didn’t know what to do with it, didn’t know if anyone would see it—and
if they did, would want to reunite with him.

Jeffrey's video to his family in Pennsylvania, along with others' messages.

So he told me he was from a small town in Pennsylvania called
Montoursville. I went on Facebook and looked at the group and saw that
there was one for that town and posted the video there, and within an
hour his sister was tagging the post. It was shared thousands of times,
made the local news that night. After about a week, the town raised over
$5,000 to bring him home and rehabilitate him. I got on a call with his
sister Jennifer who told me that they had not only been out of touch for
22 years, but he had been a missing person for 12 years.

First Miracle Message from Jessica Gottshall to Jeffrey Gottshall in 2014.

So ... a human being in San Francisco, the tech capital and most
connected city on earth, who was perhaps sitting in front of the Old
Navy flagship store on Market Street for God knows how many years, is a
missing person, and every day his sister was thinking about him and
wondering where he was ... It seemed like that was a problem that needed
to be solved. The more I looked at it, the more I talked to other
homeless folks on the street that had friends and families that they
wanted to connect with.

*How would you rate your success?*

That’s a great question. In terms of raw numbers, we recorded about 76,
messages and some of those are also from our own in-house volunteers
doing this in their own communities. We also have people that have
written notes. Of those 76 about half of those have been delivered, and
half of those led to reunions. So we’ve had about 19 reunions.

The reason for the disconnect in messages delivered and number of people
reunited is primarily because we found the family, but couldn't find the
individual on the streets again. 90 percent of loved ones are excited to
reconnect when they get the message and they want to record a video back
and hop on a phone call. To me those are a couple measures of success.

*Do you have people who aren't on the street ask you to find their
homeless loved ones?*

We do, and that’s harder. By starting with the person on the street,
it’s more likely that they are a reported missing person. If you get
their information, family structure, hometown friends, classmates, year
of graduation and last name, it’s more likely that we are able to
reconnect them.

But we are developing partnerships with homeless service providers in
San Francisco where they have a good sense of all the folks in the
system. We have outreach teams. There is a project here called Concrn
<http://hoodline.com/2016/03/crisis-response-app-recruiting-tenderloin-volunteers?utm_source=story&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=stories> which
answers to folks having crises and manic episodes on the street, that
works with us to help some of these folks reconnect with their families.
There are many ways to do it, but right now we're focused on messages
from individuals to their loved ones.

*How are you making money from this?*

Well, we had acrowdfunding
<https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/miracle-messages-reuniting-homeless-loved-ones#/>
campaign that was successful about a year and half ago. That money has
gone to paying my salary costs, program cost and our full-time director
Jessica Day, who joined our team two months ago.

It’s not easy. Funding in San Francisco and a lot of cities is locked
up. There’s a lot of red tape and bureaucracy. A lot of the money is
earmarked, there are open bidding processes, there’s due diligence, and
it could be a very cumbersome thing trying to tap into the money. But
we’ve been able to get by with individual donors and service contracts
with non-profits, churches, content distribution deals. We get
publications that help deliver messages through social media and social
good, and that’s a unique offering in this day and age.

Really, it’s going to come to corporate or network sponsors. We need
high-level distribution deals. We are working to develop a web series
and TV series. We are fiscally sponsored by the NetRoots Foundation
<http://www.netrootsfoundation.org/>, so we can accept grants and offer
tax-deductible donations.

*Tell us about a person that you recently helped to reconnect with a
loved one.*

Jeffrey’s sister hadn’t seen him for about a year. There were phone
calls here and there. She decided to purchase a round-trip ticket from
Pennsylvania just to see him.

When she got here, we walked around for hours looking for Jeffrey and
couldn’t find him. Just as we were about to give up, I sent her to a
coffee shop. It was weird. I was walking down a side street and I looked
over and saw a guy who was homeless urinating on the side of the wall.
Something about him caught my attention. He had a huge hood over his
head. So he finishes up and I was still looking at him and he goes to
sit down next to another homeless guy and I see him start rubbing his
hands—and I was like “Jeffrey rubbed his hands just like that in one of
our videos.” I run over and say “Hey this is really random, but do
either of you know a man named Jeffrey Gottshall?" And as I say that he
lifts up his head and it’s Jeffrey. I run back to the cafe, grab his
sister and they reunite.

*What was it like when they reunited?*

It was powerful. There was a lot of anticipation and buildup. They gave
each other a nice hug, but Jeffrey suffers from serious addiction and
mental illness issues, so he’s not in a state of mind to really grasp
what’s happening. He was appreciative.

Jeffrey and Jessica Gottshall Reunion. *| Photo courtesy of Miracle
Messages*

*What happened next and what is the current status of the reunion?*

* *The next day we all went to breakfast together. Jessica cried, but it
wasn’t in joy. It was feeling that she failed him. She hoped that
something would click in his mind and he would say that he needs help,
but it’s a long process.

We work with non-profits to identify individuals who would be best for
this project, because there is just such a wide variety of special needs
with homeless people. A guy like Jeffrey is not in a good position to
fly back home and move in with his family. He’s not ready. Fortunately,
he has a family that loves him and wants to be there, but he has to take
those steps. But he’s in a good place, because now the police know who
his family is and they could get in touch with them. He has a lifeline,
a little money in the bank and support from community.

*Have you had any unsuccessful reunions?*

I don’t consider anything to be successful or unsuccessful in those
terms. I think there isrelational brokenness in our society and we can’t
fix that overnight. We can take steps towards healing, but that’s
because we’ve created communicational ties. The relationship part is
hard and that comes down to the people. We can’t fix that if it’s
broken. We have 10 percent of loved ones that don’t want to connect, but
they thank us for doing this. We respect that and there is no judgement.

*Photo: Meaghan M. Mitchell/Hoodline*

*How do you think your perspective can change the way homeless
individuals are viewed in the world, starting with San Francisco?*

Well, folks on the street are not just "Joe" and "Jane." It’s someone’s
sister , brother, mother, father, son or daughter. It’s someone’s
“somebody.” Imagine how different our world would look, or even our own
community, if every time you walk by a person who is on the streets you
see them as someone's “somebody.” I think that idea alone would change
how we view the issue,  and we would treat them a lot differently. We
would probably be more open to helping them in any way we can, starting
with acknowledging them.

share this story:


      Never miss a story.

Subscribe today to get Hoodline delivered straight to your inbox.

subscribe:

subscribe


  Keep reading about Mid-Market
  <https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mid-market> SoMa
  <https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/soma> Tenderloin
  <https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/tenderloin>


Related:


  'Stories Behind the Fog' Brings Locals Face-To-Face With SF's Homeless

<https://hoodline.com/2016/12/stories-behind-the-fog-brings-locals-face-to-face-with-sf-s-homeless>


Sbtf cover photo

<https://hoodline.com/2016/12/stories-behind-the-fog-brings-locals-face-to-face-with-sf-s-homeless>


With hopes of changing local perspectives—and policies—on homelessness,
the nonprofit is broadcasting the stories of individuals living on San
Francisco streets.

<https://hoodline.com/2016/12/stories-behind-the-fog-brings-locals-face-to-face-with-sf-s-homeless>

Civic Center
 <https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/civic-center> Financial District
 <https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/financial-district> Lower Haight
 <https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-haight> Mid-Market
 <https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mid-market> Mission
 <https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mission> SoMa
 <https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/soma> Tenderloin
 <https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/tenderloin> Upper Haight
 <https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/upper-haight>


  The Stud Gets 2 More Years At 9th & Harrison, But A Move Is Inevitable

<https://hoodline.com/2016/12/the-stud-collective-secures-2-year-lease-hunts-for-long-term-venue>


Stud

<https://hoodline.com/2016/12/the-stud-collective-secures-2-year-lease-hunts-for-long-term-venue>


The iconic gay bar and performance venue has secured two more years at
9th & Harrison, but after that, it'll have to move out.

<https://hoodline.com/2016/12/the-stud-collective-secures-2-year-lease-hunts-for-long-term-venue>

SoMa
 <https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/soma>


  San Francisco's Homeless Youth Were Promised A Navigation Center.
  Where Is It?

<https://hoodline.com/2016/12/san-francisco-s-homeless-youth-were-promised-a-navigation-center-where-is-it>


Image 2 downing youthnavcenter

<https://hoodline.com/2016/12/san-francisco-s-homeless-youth-were-promised-a-navigation-center-where-is-it>


The city is requiring six new Navigation Centers to open by mid-2018—one
of which must be aimed at youth. But no one's taking action.

<https://hoodline.com/2016/12/san-francisco-s-homeless-youth-were-promised-a-navigation-center-where-is-it>

Citywide
Civic Center
 <https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/civic-center> Lower Haight
 <https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-haight> Mission
 <https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mission> SoMa
 <https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/soma> Tenderloin
 <https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/tenderloin> Upper Haight
 <https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/upper-haight>


            Hoodline

About us

<https://hoodline.com/about> Company blog

<http://blog.hoodline.com/> Write for us

<https://hoodline.com/writing> Work with us

<https://hoodline.com/jobs> Contact us

<https://hoodline.com/contact> Terms of use

<https://hoodline.com/terms> Hoodline privacy policy

<https://ripple.co/privacy-policy/>


            Our products

News

<https://hoodline.com/> Send us a tip

<https://hoodline.com/tips/new>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Events

<https://hoodline.com/events> Submit an event

<https://hoodline.com/events/submissions/new>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Neighborhood Kit

<https://hoodline.com/kit>


            Follow

Sign up <https://hoodline.com/signup> | Log in
<https://hoodline.com/login?return_to=%2F2016%2F06%2Fkevin-adler-miracle-messages>

<https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/hoodline/id814699998>


            Neighborhoods we cover

Alamo Square

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/alamo-square> Bayview

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/bayview> Bernal Heights

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/bernal-heights> Castro

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/castro> Chinatown

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/chinatown> Civic Center

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/civic-center> Cole Valley

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/cole-valley> Cow Hollow

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/cow-hollow> Divisadero

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/divisadero> Dogpatch

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/dogpatch> Duboce Triangle

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/duboce-triangle> Embarcadero

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/embarcadero> Excelsior

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/excelsior> Fillmore

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/fillmore> Financial District

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/financial-district> Fisherman's Wharf

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/fishermans-wharf>
Glen Park

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/glen-park> Hayes Valley

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/hayes-valley> Ingleside

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/ingleside> Inner Richmond

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/inner-richmond> Inner Sunset

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/inner-sunset> Jackson Square

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/jackson-square> Japantown

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/japantown> Lake Shore

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lake-shore> Lower Haight

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-haight> Lower Nob Hill

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-nob-hill> Lower Pac Heights

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-pac-heights> Marina

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/marina> Mid-Market

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mid-market> Mission

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mission> Nob Hill

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/nob-hill> Noe Valley

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/noe-valley>
NoPa

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/nopa> North Beach

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/north-beach> Ocean Beach

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/ocean-beach> Outer Richmond

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/outer-richmond> Outer Sunset

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/outer-sunset> Pacific Heights

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/pacific-heights> Polk

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/polk> Potrero Hill

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/potrero-hill> Russian Hill

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/russian-hill> SoMa

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/soma> Telegraph Hill

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/telegraph-hill> Tenderloin

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/tenderloin> Twin Peaks

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/twin-peaks> Union Square

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/union-square> Upper Haight

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/upper-haight> West Portal

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/west-portal>
Western Addition

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/western-addition>
Alamo Square

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/alamo-square> Bayview

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/bayview> Bernal Heights

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/bernal-heights> Castro

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/castro> Chinatown

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/chinatown> Civic Center

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/civic-center> Cole Valley

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/cole-valley> Cow Hollow

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/cow-hollow> Divisadero

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/divisadero> Dogpatch

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/dogpatch> Duboce Triangle

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/duboce-triangle> Embarcadero

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/embarcadero> Excelsior

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/excelsior> Fillmore

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/fillmore> Financial District

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/financial-district> Fisherman's Wharf

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/fishermans-wharf> Glen Park

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/glen-park> Hayes Valley

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/hayes-valley> Ingleside

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/ingleside> Inner Richmond

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/inner-richmond> Inner Sunset

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/inner-sunset> Jackson Square

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/jackson-square> Japantown

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/japantown> Lake Shore

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lake-shore> Lower Haight

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-haight> Lower Nob Hill

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-nob-hill> Lower Pac Heights

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-pac-heights> Marina

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/marina> Mid-Market

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mid-market> Mission

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mission> Nob Hill

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/nob-hill> Noe Valley

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/noe-valley> NoPa

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/nopa> North Beach

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/north-beach> Ocean Beach

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/ocean-beach> Outer Richmond

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/outer-richmond> Outer Sunset

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/outer-sunset> Pacific Heights

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/pacific-heights> Polk

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/polk> Potrero Hill

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/potrero-hill> Russian Hill

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/russian-hill> SoMa

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/soma> Telegraph Hill

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/telegraph-hill> Tenderloin

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/tenderloin> Twin Peaks

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/twin-peaks> Union Square

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/union-square> Upper Haight

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/upper-haight> West Portal

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/west-portal> Western Addition

<https://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/western-addition>

