Top highlight
Homepage <https://medium.com/>
The California Sunday Magazine
<https://medium.com/the-california-sunday-magazine?source=logo-lo_c9c5f5ebb63f---411bc08061cb>
Follow
<https://facebook.com/californiasunday>
Sign in / Sign up
<https://medium.com/m/signin?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fthe-california-sunday-magazine%2Fmoving-out-72e8aa7695a3%3Fsource%3Duser_profile---------9--------->
Next story


        The Noma Way

<https://medium.com/the-california-sunday-magazine/noma-australia-rene-redzepi-dbffe0a4af86?source=read_next_metabar----------41>
98
5

  * Share
  *
    98

  *
*

Go to the profile of California Sunday

<https://medium.com/@californiasunday?source=post_header_lockup>
California Sunday
<https://medium.com/@californiasunday?source=post_header_lockup>BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Stories and photographs from California, the West, Asia, and Latin America.
Jun 28

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Nate and his mother, Martha, watch the news. Most homeless families are
headed by a single mother.


  Moving Out


    One in 23 children in the San Francisco public school district is
    homeless. Should the city help families leave?

/Photographs by Taylor Johnson
Text by Lauren Smiley
Audio by Meradith Hoddinott/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

/This is a part of //our photography series on youth homelessness/
<https://medium.com/@californiasunday/young-homeless-san-francisco-5f9d450e4fc2>/for
the SF Homeless Project. Learn about the //things that young people
carry/ <https://medium.com/@californiasunday/de8832c9caa6>/, //being
homeless and LGBTQ/
<https://medium.com/@californiasunday/1855dfb807c5>/, and //life on the
road/ <https://medium.com/@californiasunday/15e292037c08>/./

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Soon after Martha Hurtado moved* into her Oakland apartment, in the
heart of Raiders country, she installed a “49ers corner.” She hung six
Niners logo banners, dragged in two stadium seats from defunct
Candlestick Park, spread a Niners comforter on the bed, tacked a pennant
in the bathroom. Martha wasn’t this showy about her pride when she lived
in San Francisco, where she was born and raised and worked for years as
an usher at Candlestick Park. But the need to signal that she was San
Franciscan surged three years ago, after she was evicted, “forced out,”
as she says.

Martha sits behind her Oakland apartment complex, which is subsidized by
Hamilton Family Center.

Evicted along with her was her elementary-school-age son, Nate, who
became a part of San Francisco’s youngest cohort of homeless when they
moved into a shelter. One out of 23 kids in the San Francisco public
school district is living either in a shelter or doubled up in someone
else’s home. That’s 2,400 students this past school year, enough to fill
Mission High School two times over. Homelessness has a negative effect
on focus and student achievement: A vast majority of homeless students
surveyed nationally said it took a toll on their emotional and mental
health.

“I tried to keep it like an adventure,” Martha says. “In our room [in
the shelter], I had our laptops so we could watch movies.” Nate got
counseling twice a week, made friends at the shelter, and was able to
keep up his grades.

Hear Martha talk about parenting while homeless

But that was a temporary fix. Nationally, the aim has been “rapid
rehousing” — moving families as quickly as possible from a shelter into
a new place of their own and then providing them with rental assistance
to stay there. The Obama administration has requested $6 billion for
rapid rehousing in this upcoming fiscal year’s budget, with the hope of
solving family homelessness by 2020. San Francisco combined resources
from its general fund with state and federal money and funding from
Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff to pump up the city’s program.

But when it comes to finding a place to use the subsidy, averaging $800
a month depending on income, a majority of families are making the same
decision as many a San Franciscan teacher, line cook, and journalist
before them: to leave. The most expedient housing solution for poor San
Franciscan kids is not in San Francisco.

Photographs on the wall of Nate and Martha’s apartment

At Hamilton Family Center — the largest family shelter in the city — 60
percent of the San Franciscan clients receiving these rent subsidies
have left for places as far as Sacramento, Vallejo, and Antioch.
Hamilton’s former executive director, Jeff Kositsky (now director of the
city’s Department of Homelessness and Supportive Housing), says allowing
families to use subsidies elsewhere just makes pragmatic sense. He was
aiming for an immediate way to reduce the months-long waitlist for a
family shelter in the city, a list on which one day Kositsky spotted his
daughter’s classmate.

Schools are often the first to learn of a child who is either at risk of
losing housing or already living homeless, so Hamilton also created a
response team of case workers who, within three days of getting a
referral from the school district, will visit the student’s house. The
program is funded by a $1 million grant from Google; Kositsky says
Google found the early detection shortcut “Googley.”

Martha still drives Nate into San Francisco most days.

The subsidies end up being more cost effective than shelters. In San
Francisco, it costs $120 a night to host a family in a shelter, or
$43,800 a year. Meanwhile, the average rent subsidy costs around $9,500
a year, or $20,000 if you include staff time for case management.
Staving off an eviction is the cheapest solution of all: $4,000. That’s
one specific way the school team has been effective: Whereas many
shelters only see families once they’ve been evicted, the Google-funded
program has identified families at risk of getting thrown out of housing
when it can still be averted.

Critics have objected to San Francisco’s subsidies being spent in other
places. Many nonprofits are focused on pushing the city to build more
affordable housing here, not sending its resources elsewhere. “It was
something that we want to mitigate as much as possible,” says Jennifer
Friedenbach, executive director of the Coalition on Homelessness.
“Moving out of town can further destabilize kids in the schools since
they’ve had so much instability. Switching schools creates a lot more
trauma and behavioral problems.”

The table where Nate eats his meals

For that reason, the federal government allows students to stay in their
home school until the end of the school year and to apply for a district
transfer after that. Nate stayed in his Bernal Heights elementary after
they moved to Oakland. Martha was driving back to the city anyway, for
work at City College (advising /their/ homeless students) and keeping
him there made sense for other reasons, too: Her mom, who still lives in
the city, could pitch in with child care.

Martha’s case exemplifies many of the city’s statistics for homeless
families: 14 percent list eviction as the primary reason for their
homelessness. The most common cause was domestic violence, at 27 percent.

For now, Martha and Nate are living in a tidy complex with an aquamarine
pool, hugging leafy MacArthur Boulevard. Martha is looking for work
locally. This upcoming school year, however, will be a difficult one;
they have to transfer Nate to an Oakland elementary for fourth grade,
and he’s rebelling. “He’s thinking he’ll live with his dad and just not
go to school anymore,” Martha says.

Nate at his summer camp in San Francisco

The biggest test for the family will come when Martha graduates from
Hamilton’s subsidy program, as she nears the end of its two-year
expiration. Nationally, families often fall back into homelessness
within one year after a subsidy ends — which is why some criticize rapid
rehousing as putting families into houses without a plan for how they’ll
eventually cover the rent. Hamilton, which has an income-planning
program and monthly check-ins, says 90 percent of its families have
stayed housed at least one year after leaving the program. Hamilton will
also help connect them to social services in their new city. But if they
want San Francisco’s help after that, they’ll need to move back.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<https://medium.com/@californiasunday/1855dfb807c5>

<https://medium.com/@californiasunday/de8832c9caa6>

<https://medium.com/@californiasunday/15e292037c08>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Taylor Johnson* is a photographer based in Oakland. She is currently
working toward her BFA in photography at the California College of the Arts.

*Lauren Smiley* is a San Francisco journalist covering how the tech boom
has changed the city.

*Meradith Hoddinott* is a radio producer based in Oakland. She has
written and produced audio stories for Heritage Radio Network, /99%
Invisible/, and KALW’s /Crosscurrents/. In 2015, she founded the podcast
/Nordic Food Lab Radio/ in Copenhagen, Denmark.

Homeless <https://medium.com/tag/homeless?source=post>San Francisco
<https://medium.com/tag/san-francisco?source=post>Family
<https://medium.com/tag/family?source=post>Photography
<https://medium.com/tag/photography?source=post>SFHomelessProject
<https://medium.com/tag/sfhomelessproject?source=post>
98
5
#
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Go to the profile of California Sunday

<https://medium.com/@californiasunday?source=footer_card>


      California Sunday <https://medium.com/@californiasunday>

Stories and photographs from California, the West, Asia, and Latin America.

#
Follow
The California Sunday Magazine

<https://medium.com/the-california-sunday-magazine?source=footer_card>


      The California Sunday Magazine
      <https://medium.com/the-california-sunday-magazine?source=footer_card>

Stories from California, the West, Asia, and Latin America.

<https://medium.com/the-california-sunday-magazine/at-larkin-street-1855dfb807c5?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
More from The California Sunday Magazine
Almost half of SF’s homeless youth are LGBTQ

<https://medium.com/the-california-sunday-magazine/at-larkin-street-1855dfb807c5?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
Go to the profile of California Sunday

<https://medium.com/@californiasunday>
California Sunday
<https://medium.com/@californiasunday?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
87
<https://bullshit.ist/the-hell-that-is-getting-a-christmas-tree-9c7dc0782ba5?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Also tagged Family
The hell that is getting a Christmas tree

<https://bullshit.ist/the-hell-that-is-getting-a-christmas-tree-9c7dc0782ba5?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Go to the profile of John Markowski

<https://bullshit.ist/@johnmarkowski>
John Markowski
<https://bullshit.ist/@johnmarkowski?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
31
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/homeless-people-are-older-and-sicker-than-ever-before-heres-one-way-to-help-903740c5de49?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-40>
Related reads
Homeless People Are Older and Sicker Than Ever. Here’s One Way to Help.

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/homeless-people-are-older-and-sicker-than-ever-before-heres-one-way-to-help-903740c5de49?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-40>
Go to the profile of Mother Jones

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@motherjones>
Mother Jones
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@motherjones?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-40>
86
Responses
Write a response…
Unknown user
No responses yet
Show all responses

×

Don’t miss California Sunday’s next story
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
California SundayCalifornia Sunday
