New America Media <http://newamericamedia.org/>
|   Top Stories
 

  * RSS

    <http://newamericamedia.org/feeds.php>
  * | NETWORK <http://newamericamedia.org/network/> |
  * | SERVICES <http://static-1.namx.org/services/HTML/index.html>
  * | POLLS <http://newamericamedia.org/sections/polls/>
  * | EVENTS <http://newamericamedia.org/sections/events/>
  * | ABOUT US <http://newamericamedia.org/about/>
  * | NEWSLETTER SIGN UP <http://newamericamedia.org/nam-newsletters.php>
  * HOME <http://newamericamedia.org/>

Browse by:

African

African American

Asian

Caribbean

European

Indigenous

Intersections

Latino

Middle Eastern

Multi-ethnic

South Asian

Today is: Nov 15, 2016

	
× <javascript:void(0)>

		 

	
powered by
	

Custom Search

Web
 
 
 
	

  * Arts & Entertainment

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/arts-entertainment/>
  * Collaborative Reporting

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/collaborative-reporting/>
  * Economy

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/economy/>
  * Education

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/education/>
  * Elders

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/elders/>
  * Environment

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/environment/>
  * Ethnic Media Headlines

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/ethnic-media-headlines/>
  * Ethnic Media Network

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/ethnic-media-network/>
  * Gender & Sexuality

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/gender-sexuality/>
  * Growing Older, Getting Poorer

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/growing-old-growing-poor/>
  * Health

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/health/>
  * Health Care Reform

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/health-care-reform/>
  * Immigration

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/immigration/>
  * International Affairs

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/international-affairs/>
  * NAM en Español

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/nam-en-espanol/>
  * Original NAM Content

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/original-nam-content/>
  * Palliative & Hospice Care

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/palliative-hospice-care/>
  * Politics & Governance

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/politics-governance/>
  * Religion

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/religion/>
  * Science & Technology

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/science-and-technology/>
  * Small Business

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/small-business/>
  * Sports

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/sports/>
  * The Movement to Expand Health Care Access

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/the-movement-to-expand-healthcare-access/>
  * Youth Culture

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/youth/>
  * Multimedia

    <#>
      o Audio

        <http://newamericamedia.org/multimedia/audio/>
      o Photo Galleries

        <http://newamericamedia.org/multimedia/photo-galleries/>
      o Video

        <http://newamericamedia.org/multimedia/video/>
  * All Stories

    <http://newamericamedia.org/archives.php>


      A Neighborhood Fixture in Spite of Eviction
      <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/06/a-neighborhood-fixture-in-spite-of-eviction.php>

A Neighborhood Fixture in Spite of Eviction <#>


    *Story* tools

Comments <#comments>

A

<#> A

<#> A

<#>Resize

Print <#>

Share and Email <#>

 

New America Media <http://www.newamericamedia.org/>, Profile, Anna
Challet, Posted: Jun 28, 2016

/
EDITOR'S NOTE: This story is part of The San Francisco Chronicle's //SF
Homeless Project/ <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/>/. /

Albert “Nick” Sutton is an easy man to spot. In a city where everybody
complains about how filthy the street is, he’s the one with the broom.

An Army veteran with a Section 8 housing voucher, he was evicted from
his apartment in SoMa last fall. He’s closing in on 60 and is in
remission from chronic myeloid leukemia.

Growing up in Hunters Point in the ‘60s with four sisters and a single
mom, he and his siblings all had chores. His mother would sweep up the
street by their home at 3rd and Kirkwood.

Even before he got evicted from his place at 9th and Tehama, he was
doing the same.

“I just started sweeping. It was something to do. I try to do something
positive, keep the neighborhood clean,” he says. “I’m a sorry person if
I can’t sweep with a broom.”

People living around the Tehama Street alleyway between 8th and 9th
started paying him to keep the sidewalks clean and wash their cars. He’s
often stooped over his broom and dustpan, his face mostly hidden, and
yet every other person who passes by says, “Hi Nick.”

He was stationed in Germany in the years after the end of the Vietnam
War. “When I came home, I couldn’t adapt to the civilian world,” he
says. He worked as a butcher and a welder. He was serving time at San
Quentin in the ‘90s when he got sick; it started as a cough that
wouldn’t go away.

After the eviction, he had nowhere to sleep. He worried about staying in
a shelter, in close quarters with many other people, because of his
weakened immune system. And he lost all his belongings; he says he
wasn’t allowed back into the building to get his things. But he kept
doing the work out on the street. “People trust me,” he says. “I have a
lot of jobs to do.”

Back when he was a teenager, he’d been a boxer at a now-gone gym on
Mission Street. “It was about respect,” he says. “The one thing you do
is don’t run.”

Fall became a wet winter. Sometimes he could get the money together for
a hotel room and sometimes he couldn’t. He kept coming back to the
street where everybody knew his name.

During a fierce overnight storm in January, he spent the whole night
outside. In the early morning hours when it was still dark, a neighbor
arriving at her office on 9th Street found him leaning against a
building and told him to come inside. She gave him a blanket and he took
a nap on her couch. He thinks that if she hadn’t been there, he might
have died of exposure.

“If I die, I die in Frisco,” he says.

Months went by; no units available, no units available. One day he was
in the alley washing an Audi. Someone called the police because they
thought he was trying to break into the car. “I’m not supposed to be
standing next to a car like that,” he says. He says the police had their
guns pointed at him before anyone noticed his bucket and all the
cleaning products.

Winter turned to spring, and he found out there might be a place, up on
McAllister in the Tenderloin. Weeks went by though, and it looked like
the room might be a phantom.

But in late April, he moved in.

“It’s good to put a key in a lock,” he says. The room is small, but
there’s enough space next to the bed for a huge papasan chair that he
sleeps in sometimes because it’s so comfortable.

Every day he rides his bike back over to Tehama.

“I’ve almost got too many cars I’m washing now. I want to hire somebody
to work with me,” he says. “I like doing what I do. It’s better than
sitting up in the house. The mind is the devil’s workshop.”

He has a 7-year-old daughter who lives in the East Bay with her mother.
He hopes she might be able to come visit sometime.

“I want her to know who I am,” he says.
/
Photo: Anna Challet / New America Media/
Edit This Entry
<http://publisher.namx.org/mt.cgi?__mode=view&_type=entry&id=15422&blog_id=19>


  * rss <http://newamericamedia.org/feeds/top-stories.xml>
  * Share and Email <#> |
  * Print <#> |

 


    *Comments*

California Youthwire
<http://ads.namx.org/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=727__zoneid=149__source=%7Bobfs%3A%7D__cb=92c2db5fa8__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.youthwire.org%2F>
 


    *Related* Articles


          Trump Victory Alarms Vietnam
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/11/trump-victory-alarms-vietnam.php>

 The shock waves from Donald Trump’s victory are only just beginning to
reverberate around the…


          Duterte Slams Obama Anew: 'Find Out the Right Meaning of
          Dignity'
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/11/duterte-slams-obama-anew-find-out-the-right-meaning-of-dignity.php>

 PRESIDENT Rodrigo Duterte lashed out against U.S. President Barack
Obama once again after the United…


          The War on Drugs in the Philippines: A StepToward Fascism?
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/10/the-war-on-drugs-in-the-philippines-a-steptoward-fascism.php>

 On September 22, 1972, Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos declared
martial law in the Philippines, resulting…


          Duterte Declares Military, Economic Break with US
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/10/duterte-declares-military-economic-break-with-us.php>

 BEIJING — President Rodrigo Duterte announced that he is breaking both
in military and economic…


          Duterte's China Trip Puts US Ties To the Test
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/10/dutertes-china-trip-puts-us-ties-to-the-test.php>

 After lashing out at longtime ally America, the new Philippine
president is making a state…


          US Donates Military Equipment to The Philippines to Help
          Counterterrorism Efforts
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/10/us-donates-military-equipment-to-the-philippines-to-help-counterterrorism-efforts.php>

 THE United States has donated counterterrorism equipment to the
Philippine Marines on Friday, October 8,…

 
 
 
 
 
feelbetter
<http://ads.namx.org/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=781__zoneid=150__source=%7Bobfs%3A%7D__cb=118a563e18__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Ffeelbetterca.org%2F>
 
California's Court Schools
<http://ads.namx.org/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=794__zoneid=187__source=%7Bobfs%3A%7D__cb=520562fc89__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Fnewamericamedia.org%2Feducation%2Fcalifornia-court-schools%2F>
 


  * Home <http://newamericamedia.org/>
  * |
  * About Us <http://newamericamedia.org/about/>
  * |
  * Services/Advertise <http://static-1.namx.org/services/HTML/index.html>
  * |
  * Network <http://newamericamedia.org/network/>
  * |
  * Writer's Guidelines <http://newamericamedia.org/writers-guidelines/>
  * |
  * Privacy Policy <http://newamericamedia.org/privacy-policy/>

New America Media, 209 9th Street, Suite 200, San Francisco, CA 94103

website security <#>
	
