Mad Frisco
<https://madfrisco.com/?source=logo-lo_c9c5f5ebb63f---e8a540a39128>
Follow
<https://twitter.com/MadFrisco><https://facebook.com/artmapinc>
Sign in / Sign up
<https://medium.com/m/signin?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmadfrisco.com%2Fa-veterans-fight-against-homelessness-in-san-francisco-967668fb70dd%3Fsource%3D---------15--------->
Next story


        PLUR

<https://madfrisco.com/plur-f339fcdf3f11?source=read_next_metabar----------41>
9

  * Share
  *
    9

  *
*

Go to the profile of Veterans Coming Home

<https://madfrisco.com/@vetscominghome?source=post_header_lockup>
Veterans Coming Home
<https://madfrisco.com/@vetscominghome?source=post_header_lockup>BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
A public media campaign to tell stories, shake up stereotypes, and
connect veterans and civilians. Find out more at
http://veteranscominghome.org.
Jun 29

------------------------------------------------------------------------


  A veteran’s fight against homelessness in San Francisco

Del Seymour, right, shows visitors through the Tenderloin neighborhood
in San Francisco. (Photo by Kathleen Flynn)

Del Seymour has been a part of San Francisco’s Tenderloin neighborhood
for over 30 years. “I drove in on highway 280…and within 30 days I was
living under 280,” he told us.

Today, Del is known as the “Mayor of Tenderloin” for his active
community involvement. Once homeless and struggling with drug addiction,
Del is helping the city, and its homeless, including up to 600
chronically homeless veterans, find jobs and break the cycle of poverty.

Del works with a number of organizations and programs, including the
city’s Local Homeless Coordinating Board <http://sfgov.org/lhcb/> and
the veterans group Swords to Plowshares
<https://www.swords-to-plowshares.org/>.

Del founded Code Tenderloin <http://www.codetenderloin.com/>, a job
readiness program that helps people seeking jobs find the resources and
training to secure employment in the tech community. The program is
funded in part by the Tenderloin Walking Tour
<http://www.codetenderloin.com/tenderloin-walking-tours> that Del leads,
which he hopes can also improve the neighborhood’s reputation.

*Watch Del’s story:*

    “As I tell people in recovery, you can fall 49 times but you need to
    get up 50 times. As long as you get up!”

Most veterans have great skills that transfer to learning code, says
Del. And they get work done: “Veterans are a great asset. They complete
their job. We need reliability,” said one employer meeting with Del at
Code Tenderloin.

Del Seymour meets with employers looking for job candidates outside the
headquarters of Code Tenderloin in San Francisco. Photo by Kathleen Flynn.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Veterans Coming Home is an innovative public media project exploring the
lives of post-9/11 veterans, the divide between them and their
communities, and the stereotypes that veterans and civilians hold about
each other.

*/Like this story? Let us know below and click the heart button
below./*/It helps other people see the story and lets us know what’s
working./

/You can also follow //Veterans Coming Home/
<http://veteranscominghome.org/>/project on //Twitter/
<https://twitter.com/VetsComingHome>/, //Facebook/
<https://www.facebook.com/vetscominghome/>/and //Instagram/
<https://www.instagram.com/vetscominghome/>/./

San Francisco
<https://madfrisco.com/tagged/san-francisco?source=post>SFHomelessProject <https://madfrisco.com/tagged/sfhomelessproject?source=post>Homelessness
<https://madfrisco.com/tagged/homelessness?source=post>Veterans
<https://madfrisco.com/tagged/veterans?source=post>Learning To Code
<https://madfrisco.com/tagged/learning-to-code?source=post>
9
#
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Go to the profile of Veterans Coming Home

<https://madfrisco.com/@vetscominghome?source=footer_card>


      Veterans Coming Home <https://madfrisco.com/@vetscominghome>

A public media campaign to tell stories, shake up stereotypes, and
connect veterans and civilians. Find out more at
http://veteranscominghome.org <http://veteranscominghome.org/>.

#
Follow
Mad Frisco

<https://madfrisco.com/?source=footer_card>


      Mad Frisco <https://madfrisco.com/?source=footer_card>

this city is crazed. but what is the craziest thing about San Francisco?

<https://madfrisco.com/co-house-how-to-survive-the-bay-area-cf64ca8f8a61?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
More on San Francisco from Mad Frisco
Co-house: How to Survive the Bay Area

<https://madfrisco.com/co-house-how-to-survive-the-bay-area-cf64ca8f8a61?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
Go to the profile of Renee

<https://madfrisco.com/@MollyboneRenee>
Renee
<https://madfrisco.com/@MollyboneRenee?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
1
<https://crossingenres.com/what-do-you-want-from-me-271b4853d065?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Also tagged Homelessness
What Do You Want From Me

<https://crossingenres.com/what-do-you-want-from-me-271b4853d065?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Go to the profile of Tim Barrus

<https://crossingenres.com/@timbarrus>
Tim Barrus
<https://crossingenres.com/@timbarrus?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
7
More from Mad Frisco
Open Resignation Letter to Philz Coffee
I have loved working for this company. I have made lifelong memories and
friends at Philz and I am profoundly grateful for that.

<https://madfrisco.com/open-resignation-letter-to-philz-coffee-efb29ce6618?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-41>
Go to the profile of Hyunny Kwon

<https://madfrisco.com/@hyunnykwon>
Hyunny Kwon
<https://madfrisco.com/@hyunnykwon?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-41>
192
Responses
Write a response…
Unknown user
No responses yet
Show all responses

×

Don’t miss Veterans Coming Home’s next story
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Veterans Coming HomeVeterans Coming Home
