Homepage <https://medium.com/>
Sign in / Sign up
<https://medium.com/m/signin?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40llasf%2Fadvancing-solutions-for-homeless-youth-bb4b337b3880%3Fsource%3D---------56--------->
Next story


        Elle Fanning in Talks to Star in Adaptation of Teresa Toten’s
        “Beware That Girl”

<https://blog.womenandhollywood.com/elle-fanning-in-talks-to-star-in-adaptation-of-teresa-totens-beware-that-girl-fa4ec8b8ea14?source=read_next_metabar----------43>
5

  * Share
  *
    5

  *
*

Go to the profile of Life Learning Academy

<https://medium.com/@llasf?source=post_header_lockup>
Life Learning Academy
<https://medium.com/@llasf?source=post_header_lockup>BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
A choice. A challenge. A chance. Transforming the futures of Bay Area
teens who need and want more than just a diploma. 415.320.1661
Jun 29

------------------------------------------------------------------------


  Advancing Solutions for Homeless Youth

*/By: LLA Staff/*

A high school dropout and runaway in the ninth grade, 14-year-old Teri
Delane found herself with a needle in her arm and no vision of a future
beyond life on the streets. Teri grew up in Las Vegas, living in an
unstable home teeming with substance abuse that led her to developing
serious drug addiction.
<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/san-francisco-needs-to-wake-up-and-help-the-kids-that-people-dont-even-know-exist-teri-c7df8abaf3e5#.nqrayatho>

Soon after her release from a year in a juvenile detention center, Teri
had a third and final heroin overdose. She woke up in the hospital to a
familiar face. A man by the name of Greg Dykes, someone who cared about
Teri, who followed her around on the streets, telling her she could do
better and lead a different life, was at her bedside. He told her, “This
is the fight you win by giving up the battle.” Dykes worked with the
courts to have Teri sent to Delancey Street in San Francisco, where she
would set out on a new chapter of her life.

Delancey Street was an environment that fostered a culture of
responsibility, leadership, and a commitment to helping others. For the
first time, Teri was surrounded by a community of people committed to
her success. Teri went back to school and earned two Master Degrees and
a Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology. Today, recognized by her peers as Dr.
Delane, Teri is the Executive Director of the Life Learning Academy
<http://www.lifelearningacademysf.org/> (LLA), a public charter high
school for disconnected youth in San Francisco. Teri says, “For many a
second chance is a gift and for me it was a call to action to serve and
give back to my community.” For the last 18 years she has been giving
kids like her a second chance through LLA’s culture of accountability
and award-winning programming.

LLA is designed specifically to serve the highest-need young people in
San Francisco. Nearly all LLA students come from low-income households.
Most of our students are involved or at risk of involvement in the
juvenile justice and child welfare systems. Over 50% of our students
report histories of substance use, and many report physical abuse.
Nearly half report current or past gang affiliation. Almost all have
profound experiences of school failure and truancy. Teri personally
interviews and invites students into a family-oriented community that is
committed to non-violence. LLA provides a circle of support led by a
multidisciplinary team of educators, counselors, peers, and alumni in
order to identify students’ strengths, and work to ensure that no one
falls through the cracks.

With an 18-year track record of success serving San Francisco’s highest
need youth, LLA continues to deliver exceptional programming to
approximately 60 students a year. LLA’s latest initiative, LLA*BUILD*
<http://build.lifelearningacademysf.org/>*,* is an effort to address San
Francisco’s homelessness and housing crises among vulnerable youth.
LLA*BUILD* is a bold initiative to disrupt the cycle of poverty through
stable housing, award-winning academics, and workforce development for
underserved teens who are committed to constructing successful lives. At
LLA, we have seen the detrimental effects of unstable housing on our
students. Our vision is to provide a structured, safe, supportive school
and home environment for homeless, lost, and disconnected youth. The aim
of LLA*BUILD *is to address critical challenges that have proven
insurmountable for some of our most financially and emotionally
impoverished students: housing, neighborhood safety, and a supportive
home community.

One of our students, Matthew (not his real name), faces these challenges
every day. A rising junior at LLA, Matthew is currently homeless.
Matthew lost his housing due to rent increases. After he was evicted, he
lived with his aunt and uncle for a few months, then with his sister,
and later on a cot in his father’s living room. He now bounces from
couch to couch and makes an hour commute to and from school. Matthew
recently told Teri, “Life Learning Academy is my home. Period.” Matthew
is eager for LLA*BUILD *to open its doors.

Today there are far too many Matthews at LLA and across San Francisco.
For many of our students, the safety and structure found at LLA is the
closest thing in their lives to a stable home. LLA*BUILD* responds to
the urgent need for youth housing by ensuring LLA students are
surrounded by the kind of community that saved Teri’s life as a
teenager. Young people like Matthew motivate LLA to respond to San
Francisco’s youth homelessness disaster, starting with those who are
most vulnerable, but who also have unparalleled potential to transform
the trajectory of their lives.

Homeless <https://medium.com/tag/homeless?source=post>San Francisco
<https://medium.com/tag/san-francisco?source=post>SFHomelessProject
<https://medium.com/tag/sfhomelessproject?source=post>Teens
<https://medium.com/tag/teens?source=post>Youth
<https://medium.com/tag/youth?source=post>
5
#
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Go to the profile of Life Learning Academy

<https://medium.com/@llasf?source=footer_card>


      Life Learning Academy <https://medium.com/@llasf>

A choice. A challenge. A chance. Transforming the futures of Bay Area
teens who need and want more than just a diploma. 415.320.1661

<https://medium.com/@llasf/gratitude-creates-happiness-2ba3d787fcdf?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-44>
More from Life Learning Academy
Gratitude creates happiness

<https://medium.com/@llasf/gratitude-creates-happiness-2ba3d787fcdf?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-44>
Go to the profile of Life Learning Academy

<https://medium.com/@llasf>
Life Learning Academy
<https://medium.com/@llasf?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-44>
<https://timeline.com/reagans-toxic-legacy-7d1d88200df4?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Also tagged SFHomelessProject
Reagan’s toxic legacy

<https://timeline.com/reagans-toxic-legacy-7d1d88200df4?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Go to the profile of Hanne Elisabeth Tidnam

<https://timeline.com/@hanne_tidnam>
Hanne Elisabeth Tidnam
<https://timeline.com/@hanne_tidnam?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
3
Also tagged Teens
The Drawer: How Thoughts of Suicide Comforted Me
The manly smell of my father’s things wafted out of the drawer as I slid
it open. As a small child, I loved to look at my father’s box. It…

<https://medium.com/@mishakennedy/the-drawer-thoughts-of-suicide-comforted-me-1c62989c2841?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Go to the profile of Michelle Kennedy Hogan

<https://medium.com/@mishakennedy>
Michelle Kennedy Hogan
<https://medium.com/@mishakennedy?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
13
Responses
Write a response…
Unknown user
No responses yet
Show all responses

×

Don’t miss Life Learning Academy’s next story
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Life Learning AcademyLife Learning Academy
