KQED Menu

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Menu

    <#>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs & Blogs

        <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Special Coverage

        <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs <#> Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California


  KQED News <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

Search

<#search-container>


  KQED News Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Search for:

Debbie Bartley sells the Homeward newspaper near the state Capitol in
Sacramento.

Debbie Bartley sells the Homeward newspaper near the state Capitol in
Sacramento. (/Steve Yeater/CALmatters/)

The California Report
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>


  At the Corner of Power and Poverty

By *Laurel Rosenhall
CALMatters*
June 29, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/at-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/at-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/at-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/at-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/at-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/at-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty/?share=email&nb=1>
*


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>

The Capitol dome looms over downtown Sacramento, a magnet for money and
power.

Shiny-shoed politicians and well-dressed lobbyists hustle toward the
building where billion-dollar decisions are made. Nearby shops sell fine
cigars and custom suits. A bar serves $16 martinis.

But the streets that surround this regal building also are home to some
of Sacramento’s most destitute residents, many suffering from mental
illness or drug addiction in addition to extreme poverty. It’s not
uncommon to see them rifling through trashcans, shouting incoherently or
sleeping barefoot in the shade on the Capitol’s manicured grounds.

Bridging these two worlds is Debbie Bartley, a 55-year-old grandmother
who stands across the street selling Homeward, a newspaper produced by
homeless people. She chats with the political staffers and lobbyists who
give her a few dollars as they pass by. Then she buys food for people
who sleep on these streets.

“I can’t feed the world, but I would if I could,” Bartley said. “Because
I understand the concept of being hungry.”

Across the sprawling county of Sacramento, roughly 950 people
<http://sacramentostepsforward.org/understanding-homelessness/point-in-time-pit-scope-size-populations/>
have no shelter on a typical night. On the streets surrounding the
Capitol, local officials counted 62 people sleeping in March — almost
double the number they counted two years earlier.

Debbie Bartley helps homeless people around the state Capitol. 
Debbie Bartley helps homeless people around the state Capitol. (Steve 
Yeater/CALmatters)

It is heartbreaking evidence of a long-standing problem in many cities
across California, a state home to more than one-fifth
<https://www.hudexchange.info/resources/documents/2015-AHAR-Part-1.pdf>
of all homeless people nationwide. Inside the marble-floored Capitol,
lawmakers are considering a $2 billion bond
<http://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/la-me-ln-brown-plan-to-ease-homelessness-20160513-story.html>
to build housing for homeless people who are mentally ill. (Update
Thursday 1:00 p.m.: Lawmakers have now passed the bond.)

The proposal was partly crafted by Darrell Steinberg, the former state
Senate leader who was recently elected mayor of Sacramento. He hopes it
will help local governments statewide.

Debbie Bartley talks to people waiting for free meals at a church near
the state Capitol.
Debbie Bartley talks to people waiting for free meals at a church near
the state Capitol. (Steve Yeater/CALmatters)

“It would be folly to say we can end homelessness and get everybody off
the streets. But we must make it better,” he said.

As mayor, Steinberg is promising an approach that combines more housing
with additional outreach, case management and mental health services.

Bartley thinks she can help. Until last year, she was homeless, bouncing
among shelters, cheap motel rooms and a tent after losing her job at a
mini-mart in 2011. Now she makes enough money most months selling
Homeward to pay the $400 monthly rent at a Sacramento trailer park.

Debbie Bartley, 55, lives in a trailer in Sacramento but worries about
becoming homeless again.
Debbie Bartley, 55, lives in a trailer in Sacramento but worries about
becoming homeless again. (Steve Yeater/CALmatters)

‘I worry every day about being homeless again.’
Debbie Bartley

“I worry every day about being homeless again,” she said, pointing to a
broken tooth and the deep lines on her face as testimony to life on the
streets.

Bartley buys the papers from the nonprofit publisher for 10 cents apiece
and sells them for a minimum donation of $1. Each weekday morning, she
sweeps her graying hair into a bun, rides the bus downtown at 7 o’clock,
then spends hours on a busy street corner, waving the paper high above
her head and greeting everyone who passes by.

“Good morning, guys,” Bartley calls out. “Would you like to make a
donation to a homeless nonprofit?”

State Sen. Richard Pan (D-Sacramento) shakes hands with Debbie Bartley.
State Sen. Richard Pan (D-Sacramento) shakes hands with Debbie Bartley.
(Steve Yeater/CALmatters.)

Some lawmakers pass without making eye contact. Bartley can name others
who regularly shake her hand. There are days when she feels angry,
watching people with means stroll by without sharing. But for the most
part, she says, the Capitol workforce is a generous bunch.

Bartley says she was addicted to methamphetamines for many years and
weathered abusive relationships. A stern warning from a judge prompted
her to get sober.

She raised five children, working at minimum wage jobs. Two of her
daughters are now drug addicts who live on the streets. She looks for
them in abandoned houses some afternoons when she’s done selling newspapers.

Bartley says she’s been diagnosed with bipolar disorder but shuns
medication because it makes her feel weird. She carries receipts from
her rent payments in her backpack, eagerly showing them to people who
give her donations. She wants them to know she doesn’t spend their money
on drugs.

“She has a work ethic that won’t quit,” said John Lovell, a lobbyist for
law enforcement groups who gives Bartley money and buys her ham
sandwiches. “She is out here rain or shine.”

*Homelessness is a complex issue. Learn more >>
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>*sfproject3
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>

On a recent morning, Bartley had collected $17 by 10:30 a.m. That was
after she spent $1 on a Pepsi for a homeless man she frequently takes
care of. He’s a regular presence around the Capitol; outreach workers
say they have tried to help him but can’t break through a fog of mental
illness.

The summer sun was baking the sidewalk as the man approached Bartley on
her corner. She went into a market and came out with the soda.

“Here, baby,” she said. “Have a blessed day.”

‘There is no reason for anybody in this world to eat out of a garbage
can. There is too much money here.’
Debbie Bartley

Bartley said she began sharing food with the man after she saw him
eating from a garbage can. Now she picks up a bag lunch for him from a
nearby charity or gives him leftovers she collects from lunchtime events
on the Capitol grounds.

“There is no reason for anybody in this world to eat out of a garbage
can,” Bartley said. “There is too much money here.”

/CALmatters is a nonprofit journalism venture dedicated to exploring
state policies and politics. For more stories by Laurel Rosenhall, go
to/ /calmatters.org/newsanalysis/ <http://calmatters.org/newsanalysis>

Explore: Housing <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>, News
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/news/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/at-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/at-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/at-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/at-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/at-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/at-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

0 Comments
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/at-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related

Perfect Policy Storm Rains Money on Legislative Races

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/16/perfect-policy-storm-rains-money-on-legislative-races>

Hey Big Spenders: Three Multimillionaires Stake a Claim on State Ballot

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/09/15/hey-big-spenders-three-multimillionaires-stake-a-claim-on-state-ballot/>

On the Offense: Transgender Californians Aim to Pre-Empt Ballot Struggle

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/08/17/on-the-offense-transgender-californians-aim-to-pre-empt-ballot-struggle/>

Homelessness: You've Got Questions, We've Got Answers

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/homelessness-youve-got-questions-weve-got-answers>

S.F. Homeless Problem Looks the Same as It Did 20 Years Ago

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/endless-efforts-meager-results>

Climate Retreat? Legislature May Ditch Plan to Radically Reduce Emissions

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/08/04/climate-retreat-legislature-may-ditch-plan-to-radically-reduce-emissions/>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


  Post navigation

Prev City Data: More Than 1,500 Housing Code Violations in S.F. Mission

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/san-francisco-mission-district-fires-housing-code-violations/>
Next Mayor, Business Groups Line Up to Fight S.F. Tech Tax Proposal

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/mayor-business-groups-line-up-to-fight-s-f-tech-tax-proposal/>



  About The California Report

The California Report provides daily coverage of news and culture
throughout the state.

  * Contributors <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/contributors/>
  * Contact <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/contact-the-california-report/>
  * Tune In <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tune-in/>


  About KQED

  * About <http://www.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://www.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://www.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://www.kqed.org/about/help/index.jsp>


  Support for The California Report is Provided By

  * Eric and Wendy Schmidt <http://www.theschmidt.org/>
  * The California Endowment <http://www.calendow.org/>
  * California HealthCare Foundation <http://www.chcf.org/>
  * Rowbotham <http://www.rowbotham.com/>
  * The Westly Foundation <http://www.westly.org/> 



  * The James Irvine Foundation <http://www.irvine.org/>
  * Barracuda Networks <https://www.barracuda.com/>
  * Blach Construction <http://www.blach.com/>
  * Digital Foundry <http://www.digitalfoundry.com/>
  * Wharton San Francisco <http://sf.wharton.upenn.edu/> 

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

[blank image]
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.


  Get the facts!

Close

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil
:)
