6

  * HOME

    <https://calmatters.org/>

  * CALIFORNIA PROPOSITIONS 2016

    <https://calmatters.org/elections/>


      POLICY

  * Budget

    <https://calmatters.org/category/budget/>
  * Education

    <https://calmatters.org/category/education/>
  * Environment

    <https://calmatters.org/category/environment-1/>
  * Health Care

    <https://calmatters.org/category/healthcare/>
  * Immigration

    <https://calmatters.org/category/undocumented/>
  * Poverty

    <https://calmatters.org/category/minimum-wage/>
  * Public Safety

    <https://calmatters.org/category/criminal-justice/>
  * Technology

    <https://calmatters.org/category/technology/>
  * Transportation

    <https://calmatters.org/category/transportation/>
  * Events

    <https://calmatters.org/category/calmatters_events/>
  * Pensions

    <https://calmatters.org/category/pensions/>


      PROJECTS

  * California's Pension Crisis

    <https://calmatters.org/project/california-pensions/>
  * School Quality

    <https://calmatters.org/project/education-accountability/>
  * Building Efficiency

    <https://calmatters.org/project/building-efficiency/>
  * Drug Costs

    <https://calmatters.org/project/drug-spending/>
  * School Spending

    <https://calmatters.org/project/school-spending/>
  * Transportation

    <https://calmatters.org/project/transportation/>
  * Poverty

    <https://calmatters.org/project/poverty/>
  * Climate Change

    <https://calmatters.org/project/climatechange/>

  * POLITICS

    <https://calmatters.org/politics/>
  * ABOUT

    <https://calmatters.org/about/>
  * CONTACT US

    <https://calmatters.org/contact_us/>
  * DONATE

    <https://calmatters.org/donate/>


        SEARCH

GO


        SIGN UP FOR THE WEEKLY EMAIL

SUBMIT

  * //

    <http://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fcalmatters.org%2Farticles%2Fat-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty%2F&t=via%40CALmatters%20At+the+corner+of+power+and+poverty>

  * //

    <https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?original_referer=https%3A%2F%2Fcalmatters.org%2Farticles%2Fat-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty%2F&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw&text=At+the+corner+of+power+and+poverty%20via%20%40CALmatters&tw_p=tweetbutton&url=https%3A%2F%2Fcalmatters.org%2Farticles%2Fat-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty%2F>

  * //

    <mailto:?subject=At+the+corner+of+power+and+poverty&body=At+the+corner+of+power+and+poverty%20via%20CALmatters%0A%0Ahttps%3A%2F%2Fcalmatters.org%2Farticles%2Fat-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty%2F>


Toggle navigation

  * CALmatters

    <https://calmatters.org/>
  * CALIFORNIA PROPOSITIONS 2016

    <https://calmatters.org/elections/>
  * POLICY

    <#>
      o Budget

        <https://calmatters.org/category/budget/>
      o Education

        <https://calmatters.org/category/education/>
      o Environment

        <https://calmatters.org/category/environment-1/>
      o Health Care

        <https://calmatters.org/category/healthcare/>
      o Immigration

        <https://calmatters.org/category/undocumented/>
      o Poverty

        <https://calmatters.org/category/minimum-wage/>
      o Public Safety

        <https://calmatters.org/category/criminal-justice/>
      o Technology

        <https://calmatters.org/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://calmatters.org/category/transportation/>
      o Events

        <https://calmatters.org/category/calmatters_events/>
      o Pensions

        <https://calmatters.org/category/pensions/>
  * POLITICS

    <https://calmatters.org/politics/>
  * PROJECTS

    <#>
      o California's Pension Crisis

        <https://calmatters.org/project/california-pensions/>
      o School Quality

        <https://calmatters.org/project/education-accountability/>
      o Building Efficiency

        <https://calmatters.org/project/building-efficiency/>
      o Drug Costs

        <https://calmatters.org/project/drug-spending/>
      o School Spending

        <https://calmatters.org/project/school-spending/>
      o Transportation

        <https://calmatters.org/project/transportation/>
      o Poverty

        <https://calmatters.org/project/poverty/>
      o Climate Change

        <https://calmatters.org/project/climatechange/>
  * ABOUT

    <https://calmatters.org/about/>
  * CONTACT US

    <https://calmatters.org/contact_us/>
  * DONATE

    <https://calmatters.org/donate/>

Search <https://calmatters.org/search/>

  *   <https://www.facebook.com/calmatters>
  * <https://twitter.com/calmatters>

Debbie Bartley sells a street journal near the California Capitol in
Sacramento. IMAGE BY Steve Yeater for CALmatters


  At the corner of power and poverty

by Laurel Rosenhall <https://calmatters.org/about/staff/laurel-rosenhall>

06.28.2016
/

/FOLLOW THIS STORY

//

<http://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fcalmatters.org%2Farticles%2Fat-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty%2F&t=via%40CALmatters%20At+the+corner+of+power+and+poverty>
//

<https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?original_referer=https%3A%2F%2Fcalmatters.org%2Farticles%2Fat-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty%2F&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw&text=At+the+corner+of+power+and+poverty%20via%20%40CALmatters&tw_p=tweetbutton&url=https%3A%2F%2Fcalmatters.org%2Farticles%2Fat-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty%2F>
//

<mailto:?subject=At+the+corner+of+power+and+poverty&body=At+the+corner+of+power+and+poverty%20via%20CALmatters%0A%0Ahttps%3A%2F%2Fcalmatters.org%2Farticles%2Fat-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty%2F>
//

<#>

IN PARTNERSHIP WITH

<https://calmatters.org/partner/sacramento-news-and-review>
<https://calmatters.org/partner/route-fifty>
<https://calmatters.org/partner/kcet>

The Capitol dome looms over downtown Sacramento, a magnet for money and
power.

Shiny-shoed politicians and well-dressed lobbyists hustle toward the
building where billion-dollar decisions are made. Nearby shops sell fine
cigars and custom suits. A bar serves $16 martinis.

But the streets that surround this regal building also are home to some
of Sacramento’s most destitute residents, many suffering from mental
illness or drug addiction in addition to extreme poverty. It’s not
uncommon to see them rifling through trash cans, shouting incoherently
or sleeping barefoot in the shade on the Capitol’s manicured grounds.

Bridging these two worlds is Debbie Bartley, a 55-year-old grandmother
who stands across the street selling Homeward, a newspaper produced by
homeless people. She chats with the political staffers and lobbyists who
give her a few dollars as they pass by. Then she buys food for people
who sleep on these streets.

“I can’t feed the world, but I would if I could,” Bartley said. “Because
I understand the concept of being hungry.”

Across the sprawling county of Sacramento, roughly950 people
<http://sacramentostepsforward.org/understanding-homelessness/point-in-time-pit-scope-size-populations/>
have no shelter on a typical night. On the streets surrounding the
Capitol, local officials counted 62 people sleeping in March – almost
double the number they counted two years earlier.

It is heartbreaking evidence of a longstanding problem in many cities
across California, a state home to more than one-fifth
<https://www.hudexchange.info/resources/documents/2015-AHAR-Part-1.pdf>
of all homeless people nationwide. Inside the marble-floored Capitol,
lawmakers have now passed a $2 billion bond
<http://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/la-me-ln-brown-plan-to-ease-homelessness-20160513-story.html>
to build housing for homeless people who are mentally ill.

The proposal was partly crafted by Darrell Steinberg, the former state
Senate leader who was recently elected mayor of Sacramento. He hopes it
will help local governments statewide.

“It would be folly to say we can end homelessness and get everybody off
the streets. But we must make it better,” he said.

As mayor, Steinberg is promising an approach that combines more housing
with additional outreach, case management and mental health services. 


    CALmatters Email Updates

Sign up for new stories, and updates on the ones you care about, as they
are released. You will receive one or two emails a week.

Email*

SUBMIT

Bartley thinks she can help. Until last year, she was homeless, bouncing
among shelters, cheap motel rooms and a tent after losing her job at a
mini-mart in 2011. Now she makes enough money most months selling
Homeward to pay the $400 rent at a Sacramento trailer park.

“I worry every day about being homeless again,” she said, pointing to a
broken tooth and the deep lines on her face as testimony to life on the
streets.

Bartley buys the papers from the nonprofit publisher for 10 cents apiece
and sells them for a minimum donation of $1. Each weekday morning, she
sweeps her graying hair into a bun, rides the bus downtown at 7 o’clock,
then spends hours on a busy street corner, waving the paper high above
her head and greeting everyone who passes by.

“Good morning guys,” Bartley calls out. “Would you like to make a
donation to a homeless nonprofit?”


      At the corner of power and poverty

Photos by Steve Yeater for CALmatters. Audio and editing by Matt Levin.

Some lawmakers pass without making eye contact. Bartley can name others
who regularly shake her hand. There are days when she feels angry,
watching people with means stroll by without sharing. But for the most
part, she says, the Capitol workforce is a generous bunch.

Bartley says she was addicted to methamphetamines for many years and
weathered abusive relationships. A stern warning from a judge prompted
her to get sober.  

She raised five children, working at minimum-wage jobs. Two of her
daughters are now drug addicts who live on the streets. She looks for
them in abandoned houses some afternoons when she’s done selling newspapers.

Bartley says she’s been diagnosed with bipolar disorder but shuns
medication because it makes her feel weird. She carries receipts from
her rent payments in her backpack, eagerly showing them to people who
give her donations. She wants them to know she doesn’t spend their money
on drugs.

“She has a work ethic that won’t quit,” said John Lovell, a lobbyist for
law enforcement groups who gives Bartley money and buys her ham
sandwiches. “She is out here rain or shine.”

On a recent morning, Bartley had collected $17 by 10:30 a.m. That was
after she spent $1 on a Pepsi for a homeless man she frequently takes
care of. He’s a regular presence around the Capitol; outreach workers
say they have tried to help him but can’t break through a fog of mental
illness.

The summer sun was baking the sidewalk as the man approached Bartley on
her corner. She went into a market and came out with the soda.

“Here, baby,” she said. “Have a blessed day.”

Bartley said she began sharing food with the man after she saw him
eating from a garbage can. Now she picks up a bag lunch for him from a
nearby charity or gives him leftovers she collects from lunchtime events
on the Capitol grounds.

“There is no reason for anybody in this world to eat out of a garbage
can,” Bartley said. “There is too much money here.”

 


        About this story

        <https://calmatters.org/atom/about-this-story>

This is part of a collaboration by media outlets in California that are
reporting about homelessness on June 29, 2016. The effort is led by the
San Francisco Chronicle <http://www.sfgate.com/homeless/> and includes
about 70 news organizations. More information on the project is here
<http://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/16/us/san-francisco-homelessness.html?_r=1>.
You can follow the stories on Twitter
<https://twitter.com/bayareahomeless> and Facebook
<https://www.facebook.com/sfhomelessproject/>.


        RELATED STORIES

POLITICS <#> 03.09.2016


      New GOP leader wants to give ‘a hand up’
      <https://calmatters.org/articles/new-gop-leader-wants-to-give-a-hand-up/>


by Laurel Rosenhall <https://calmatters.org/about/staff/laurel-rosenhall>

ARTICLES <#> 11.22.2015


      California’s working poor grow poorer
      <https://calmatters.org/articles/working-poor-grow-poorer/>

by Pauline Bartolone <https://calmatters.org/about/staff/pauline-bartolone>

POLITICS <#> 10.21.2015


      Gripping power for the long term?
      <https://calmatters.org/articles/gripping-power-for-the-long-term/>

by Laurel Rosenhall <https://calmatters.org/about/staff/laurel-rosenhall>


    More Articles

New GOP leader wants to give ‘a hand up’


      New GOP leader wants to give ‘a hand up’
      <https://calmatters.org/articles/new-gop-leader-wants-to-give-a-hand-up/>


by Laurel Rosenhall <https://calmatters.org/about/staff/laurel-rosenhall>

California’s working poor grow poorer


      California’s working poor grow poorer
      <https://calmatters.org/articles/working-poor-grow-poorer/>

by Pauline Bartolone <https://calmatters.org/about/staff/pauline-bartolone>

Gripping power for the long term?


      Gripping power for the long term?
      <https://calmatters.org/articles/gripping-power-for-the-long-term/>

by Laurel Rosenhall <https://calmatters.org/about/staff/laurel-rosenhall>

© 2016 CALMATTERS <https://calmatters.org/>. All rights reserved.

  * PRIVACY POLICY <https://calmatters.org/privacy-policy/>
  * TERMS & CONDITIONS <https://calmatters.org/terms-conditions/>
  * DONATE <https://calmatters.org/donate/>
  * EMAIL SIGNUP FOR NEWSLETTER <https://calmatters.org/subscribe/>

CALmatters is a nonprofit, nonpartisan media venture explaining
California's policies and politics. Read more stories and sign up for
the weekly newsletter at calmatters.org.

