From /The Atlantic/


  CityLab

<http://www.citylab.com/>
Menu <#>

  * Commute <http://www.citylab.com/commute/>
  * Work <http://www.citylab.com/work/>
  * Housing <http://www.citylab.com/housing/>
  * Weather <http://www.citylab.com/weather/>
  * Crime <http://www.citylab.com/crime/>
  * Politics <http://www.citylab.com/politics/>
  * Design <http://www.citylab.com/design/>
  * Tech <http://www.citylab.com/tech/>

  * Navigator

    <http://www.citylab.com/navigator/>
  * CityFixer

    <http://www.citylab.com/cityfixer/>
  * Maps

    <http://www.citylab.com/posts/maps/>
  * Photos

    <http://www.citylab.com/posts/photos/>
  * Videos

    <http://www.citylab.com/posts/videos/>
  * Search

    <http://www.citylab.com/search/>
  *
      o

        <https://www.facebook.com/thisiscitylab>
      o

        <https://twitter.com/CityLab>
      o

        <https://www.linkedin.com/company/citylab-com>
      o

        <http://www.citylab.com/feeds/posts/>


    Ads are being blocked

For us to continue writing great stories, we need to display ads.

Un-block

<#blocker-msg-whitelist> Learn more

<http://www.citylab.com/faq/#21>
Back


    Whitelist

Please select the extension that is blocking ads.

Ad Block Plus

Ghostery

uBlock

Other Blockers

Back


Please follow the steps below

CityFixer <http://www.citylab.com/cityfixer/>


  Why a Running Club for the Homeless Is Heading to San Francisco

The nonprofit Back on My Feet, which promotes jogging routines to help
stabilize the lives of homeless people, will launch in the Bay Area in
the fall.

  * Eillie Anzilotti <http://www.citylab.com/authors/eillie-anzilotti/>
  * @eillieanzi <https://twitter.com/intent/user?screen_name=eillieanzi>
  * Jun 29, 2016
  * 6 Comments <#disqus_thread>

  *
  * Share on Facebook <#>
  * Tweet <#>
  * <#>
  * <mailto:?subject=Why%20a%20Running%20Club%20for%20the%20Homeless%20Is%20Heading%20to%20San%20Francisco&body=The%20nonprofit%20Back%20on%20My%20Feet%2C%20which%20promotes%20jogging%20routines%20to%20help%20stabilize%20the%20lives%20of%20homeless%20people%2C%20will%20launch%20in%20the%20Bay%20Area%20in%20the%20fall.%0A%0ARead%20More:%0Ahttp%3A//www.citylab.com/cityfixer/2016/06/back-on-my-feet-running-homelessness-san-francisco/488522/%3Futm_source%3Deb>
  * <#>

Back on My Feet

Love CityLab? Make sure you're signed up for our free e-mail newsletter.

In 2007, Anne Mahlum was living in Philadelphia. She had a habit of
waking up early to exercise; each morning, her route took her by a
homeless shelter. Even at dawn, there were people out in front. One
morning, they waved. As Mahlum built up a rapport with her early-morning
neighbors, she started thinking: /Why am I running past them when I
could run with them? /

ADVERTISING
inRead invented by Teads <http://inread-experience.teads.tv/>

Mahlum had started running as a teenager to cope with troubles at home.
Maybe, she thought, running could help other people the same way it did her?

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Part Of The

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/>


        Read more about it <https://sfhomelessproject.com/>

Go <https://sfhomelessproject.com/>
------------------------------------------------------------------------

So she brought some sneakers to the shelter and asked if any of
the**residents wanted to join. They did. Those first early morning runs
have since grown into a national nonprofit, Back on My Feet
<http://www.backonmyfeet.org/>, which brings homeless individuals
together three times a week at 5:30 a.m. for a run, and connects them
with employment and housing resources. Mahlum left in 2013 to open a
fitness studio, but Back on My Feet has spread to 11 cities and helped
more than 5,500 members—placing over 2,000 in jobs and around 1,500 in
more permanent housing.

In the fall, Back on My Feet will launch in San Francisco. “It’s the
city that needs the most help now,” says CEO Katy Sherratt. When looking
where to establish Back on My Feet chapters, Sherratt says the
organization assesses a number of things: Is there a strong running
community? Do Back on My Feet’s corporate partners
<http://www.backonmyfeet.org/national-partners> have a presence? Does
the city host races and marathons? (The organization is financed by
sponsored runs and donations from individuals and large companies.)

San Francisco meets those requirements, but ultimately, the needs of its
homeless population drove the decision to expand there. An estimated
6,600 people are without a permanent home in San Francisco, at least
according to the city’s latest count
<http://www.sfgate.com/bayarea/article/S-F-homeless-population-getting-sicker-older-6387308.php>,
and a lack of shelter space and high rate of chronic homelessness make
people who are living on the street particularly visible
<http://fusion.net/story/148372/san-francisco-homelessness/>. Their
enduring plight means “we need new and innovative solutions that try and
break the cycle and address the problem in a different way,” says Jim
Godfrey of the Pramana Collective, a PR firm that’s helping bring Back
on My Feet to the Bay Area.

A running community is one of those unexpected solutions. Back on My
Feet asserts its counterintuitive approaches have worked. “Sometimes, I
have to defend it—people don’t often see how running can help the
homeless,” Sherratt says.

(Courtesy Back on My Feet)

Like training for a marathon, the program starts slow. Members must
maintain a 90 percent attendance rate for 30 days before moving to the
“Next Steps” phase, which provides job training, educational support,
employment referrals, and housing assistance. Eighty percent of members
reach this point. After that, they’re expected to secure a job—90
percent of Back on My Feet alums have maintained their employment six
months out and 60 percent earned a raise, Sherratt says.

Back on My Feet works with an independent consulting firm, PA Consulting
Group <http://www.paconsulting.com/>, to validate its economic impact
<http://www.backonmyfeet.org/nationalimpact>. By boosting employment and
lowering costs for hospitalization, incarceration, and treatment for
addiction, Back on My Feet claims that for every dollar put into its
programs, $2.39 goes back into the community.  

For Eugene Hardy, an alum from the Atlanta chapter, the program came
just in the nick of time. Hardy recalls returning from combat in
Afghanistan to a foreclosed house and a departed wife. “I went from
having a nice amount of income saved to having nothing,” he says. “The
chance of making a difference with my life felt so slim.”

Hardy joined Back on My Feet three years ago and eventually got a
full-time job at Chick-fil-A. He still wakes up on Mondays, Wednesdays,
and Fridays to join other members on their runs: typically three-mile
jaunts lasting no longer than an hour. Hardy says he considers them
family. “They loved me past my pain,” he says.

Could the program help homeless San Franciscans the same way? It’s early
to tell, but at least one local advocate—Kara Zordel, the executive
director of Project Homeless Connect
<https://www.projecthomelessconnect.org/>—thinks it shows promise.

“You have to start with engagement before you can even think about
housing,” she says. The experience of homelessness is often one of
isolation and disenfranchisement; the focus, self-esteem, and community
cultivated through running creates a bridge to a more sustainable,
stable life. “It gives people hope; it gets people stabilized,” Zordel says.

But San Francisco’s housing crisis, she adds, could hinder Back on My
Feet’s goal of moving people from running to job-training to housing all
within a year. The Bay Area has a severe shortage of the kind of
affordable housing the program typically depends on.

(Courtesy Back on My Feet)

Sherratt says Back on My Feet is prepared to approach housing in San
Francisco with flexibility. The program will consider helping members
look for housing in neighboring cities and towns, where resources are
less stretched. It might also try a public-private partnership model
that’s been successful for its Indianapolis branch, in which a real
estate company and a foundation partnered to refurbish an apartment
complex to house members at a reduced rate.

As the economic gulf between wealthy newcomers and homeless residents
becomes more and more glaring around the Bay, there’s plenty of
resentment and blame to go around. But at 5:30 a.m., when members and
volunteers and corporate board members are stretching before a
three-mile run, perhaps those class divisions will be less palpable. In
a moment like that, it’s possible to believe Zordel’s vision: “We need
people to understand that we’re all created as one.”

  *
  * Share on Facebook <#>
  * Tweet <#>
  * <#>
  * <mailto:?subject=Why%20a%20Running%20Club%20for%20the%20Homeless%20Is%20Heading%20to%20San%20Francisco&body=The%20nonprofit%20Back%20on%20My%20Feet%2C%20which%20promotes%20jogging%20routines%20to%20help%20stabilize%20the%20lives%20of%20homeless%20people%2C%20will%20launch%20in%20the%20Bay%20Area%20in%20the%20fall.%0A%0ARead%20More:%0Ahttp%3A//www.citylab.com/cityfixer/2016/06/back-on-my-feet-running-homelessness-san-francisco/488522/%3Futm_source%3Deb>
  * <#>

Presented by

  *
    Previous
    Now, North Carolina Wants to Hold City Infrastructure Hostage
    <http://www.citylab.com/politics/2016/06/hb-100-anti-immigrant-bill-punish-nc-cities-infrastructure-north-carolina/489116/>

  *
    Next
    Could Supervised Injections Help San Francisco's Homeless Drug Users?
    <http://www.citylab.com/housing/2016/06/could-supervised-injection-help-san-franciscos-homeless-drug-users/489086/>


Ads by Revcontent


      Around the Web

Beware of Annuities - A Common Retirement Pitfall
Fisher Investments

<http://trends.revcontent.com/click.php?d=9GFqEe6YC3%2BAUd1gRKIBh9SflsRrjIz8dTtB1ztafCIciigNyhpmiWZqsqjgZQH6AK9OfE0txTP374Yy%2BtZJAtYb4M4yPaLQnpa0zXvO6QiLAoWPdWFxNUAC8i6Nmb7u3Qdphl1cYlaiAwmk2o1V%2BT0uyGK3l3Ln7Dq3k6%2BmRDIsam2AJzjPfXoSV5%2BmQsvvE7BAjDlkBZ5E56NBP3h1Lx9GB0V9NG0K%2FWa4eGMTxEtQGg%2FIeJPNx%2Bp4FCpal%2Beow%2BHngbm2TGujQEOmaJ5XyZf%2BQqj1qZCuP5ry2DA1vyjc2z42Eg0vq140V1hoF83nJ7cxFqxPRmI7RkfN2I%2FjXZvMQnpjYSUJoPWo6MG6hVuDpZPjMuaVe8b6GSJXObbH0QjEjQ7y9zAYXGJheSJpYFZH6pGsar%2B9cL6O76G8zLihFuH1Uma%2BHILi%2BDtbOtKO7iV%2F5qwTJvf3UBvDFNObdwfrNUmPmdzj%2BeK7qneACSqV4Lh5euAQaWydqC3Tpy6w1Mas8IoVdC8cqhXE%2FRhHt64LJNY0hNKKGkpIAK9XxtP9hamooJvOkzHDfaHuY4oxpNe5zuxmkJLtqLc43Rx6ybAbA83II1TCylUCrQVwBFBMEoF0qyEQRW6nsk0bQZlA7ZEivoe44YuGMWgwIFDthkj9VZzU3%2FXvhcv94adhm0%2FnGNRcH9jTSk6Lq0IjH62xytXYD%2F%2FApqg6qhE3M%2F2Lsg%3D%3D&viewed=true>
x
Vintage Photos Taken Moments Before Tragedy Struck
Detonate.com

<http://trends.revcontent.com/click.php?d=ZwtcZYM5xEqzwcy1rHo9IDjMWicWSGWGrVlM%2F0hjja8d6xCoNKDTmYYisIwPKkZi1NCRLmT45rm3FN1VQIoBcYHAcCWfz%2FxD5c3kt518mDyeFQoEJ5tvviHY4ickFjwYkVVdcXgPx4vhTz0c2OcEiFY42YYZWDG8JYhnTTOdJ2RtshdbC%2FwSK9ynxB5vmQd1FRUn7FPNdDDwXMKvnrkz7ZuMsL0rV5CwDsdPB8h94yYGk6EpqeZuU%2BtTxZXIKOI%2BrynClnVu23iy36W%2BxMWmkjkrxuSQhKIBczXBdH0gCpzIeJg4zn6uLmZ86vLcS47klPNnqsCM1%2BkzU0HNCVTe1FBFSFJaZpjedhowBuu8NQIwaph06ZJrrVK4KmwB3leQbOkjP9XE6ohrxe9iuRzZ70nKiEHIUr4Ddc1JA1ddOt8sscaz5UsxZSjLi1F98NRmQXca8l5fdwlR9bE0SocFhXkQR%2FFBD9RmejSmeadpV7yH5Wny4TK%2Fc3di7pccSGFm1h5ciWfTVpebGVKuBlkYfI4GRjhJHvCmSymgSU2N%2BAIbO7dCKcXec63OzUVFs2tm60Fxcsr3%2BG1Rbr2Iw%2BPGd3WeyR01c7NL9q%2FLdZ4QfzYb7HsuLAbQ1vvojbywygY8KGyF2ktrHdAV5BBRMMkUQpGECRyovsrnr55CARlVZ0k%3D&viewed=true>
x
Celeb Secrets Revealed: What They Actually Carry In Their Purses Will
Stun You
Glamour

<http://trends.revcontent.com/click.php?d=8M6Os65MvkzhrF1Iod3HUP%2FkuWUs28A%2BlmEW3Hos6Qp1jubU3Zm54BvUnzQJbH%2Fxxpzav%2BmcIhXP%2F9Xk3hAGc8IFvA5FZlyhqu%2FFwyVyCEh2Bo7nor0Mc9Vo6xjkSHf3wvB8I5awAMSa5mgjXLNxg10MRXf0emIhzPhzRdT1tZ0S2k3duba7gxOHysh6jKupxvm775fgq7qv3y87xd9fRZKxRCGyhCmbcDvDj12ZFAswCRrEeDFj63TL%2BDVXMPfC0Tq6MsKiAVrNkrraGEZp2TMbSN5Fw%2Fz%2Bpur9%2BRIfNwn0vn2UvY2sg2MxaOJIGyU22SV9MSI%2FmV8l6lJoMHWjAjgqpapmAGUvlPdSq%2Bfpp2foqskED0QFCYVSpV4XlbUd%2BRLbo4dYlNfaWyzVSeuvBd0SXvaf5Vu9XSmlGK%2FZ0RApp3O2%2BZnSeTsst5GDrXa12lUtZ1fZChVoUFXTZSJEeSt0Deo0wZGd31HLbYjYWWvfKWreLS%2BDZPNK4m1i6RgJPd%2FKVUQNIoV4q80yqrEy5Lazqro6W2wKmJnT827u%2FgEDUXj63EQjXTsRQtxwQnWwAiDd2QXnp2stOgnu%2FxDwF%2FctlHtfhAODdXvqK%2B2hs%2Fnq9HtUomIOX1D3P%2BDsNeXIO70wtVdFL1wQn6tQfBrEkFrnVM22ASuhefn1dQT0Iuy5Bn6UYaI9CkSDCRKq%2FMRkptoMGbtd9f7UNHv%2FDpuGdg%3D%3D&viewed=true>
x
Quantcast


    About the Author

  * Eillie Anzilotti <http://www.citylab.com/authors/eillie-anzilotti/>
    Eillie Anzilotti is an editorial fellow at CityLab.
      o All Posts <http://www.citylab.com/authors/eillie-anzilotti/>
      o @eillieanzi <https://twitter.com/intent/user?screen_name=eillieanzi>
      o Feed <http://www.citylab.com/feeds/author/eillie-anzilotti/>


Most Popular

 1. How America's Metro Areas Voted
    <http://www.citylab.com/politics/2016/11/how-americas-metro-areas-voted/508355/>
 2. Can the Sharing Economy Root Out Racism?
    <http://www.citylab.com/tech/2016/11/can-the-sharing-economy-root-out-racism/508940/>
 3. Why Don't You Need a Bicycle License?
    <http://www.citylab.com/commute/2016/11/why-dont-you-need-a-bicycle-license/508937/>
 4. The Uselessness of Economic Development Incentives
    <http://www.citylab.com/work/2012/12/uselessness-economic-development-incentives/4081/>
 5. 4 Questions About the Incoming Secretary of Transportation
    <http://www.citylab.com/politics/2016/11/4-questions-about-the-incoming-secretary-of-transportation/509009/>
 6. To Understand Detroit, Look in at Night
    <http://www.citylab.com/navigator/2016/11/detroit-after-dark-exhibition/508838/>
 7. The Evolution of Urban Planning in 10 Diagrams
    <http://www.citylab.com/design/2012/11/evolution-urban-planning-10-diagrams/3851/>
 8. All Hail Carmel, Indiana, America's King of Roundabouts
    <http://www.citylab.com/weather/2016/11/all-hail-carmel-indiana-americas-king-of-roundabouts/508943/>
 9. It's Not the Gentrification, It's the Resegregation
    <http://www.citylab.com/politics/2016/11/its-not-the-gentrification-its-the-resegregation/501401/>
10. Loving Transit, Breaking the Law
    <http://www.citylab.com/navigator/2016/11/off-the-rails-and-the-new-york-criminal-justice-system/508070/>

See All Stories <http://www.citylab.com/posts/>

 1.


    Newsletters


        CityLab, Straight to Your Inbox: Sign Up Here

    Go <http://www.citylab.com/newsletters/?utm_source=CLPromoModule>

 1.


    Let's Be Friends


        Don't Miss Our Latest Stories

    Go <https://www.facebook.com/thisiscitylab/>
 2.


    Store


        T-Shirts, Mugs, and More

    Go <http://www.zazzle.com/atlanticmedia/gifts?cg=196924976381926554>

Back To Top

<#site-header>

  * CityLab

    <http://www.citylab.com/>
  * Share

    <#>
  * Tweet

    <#>
  * Menu

    <#>

Through original reporting, sharp analysis, and visual storytelling,
/CityLab/ informs and inspires the people who are creating the cities of
the future—and those who want to live there.


      Follow

  * <https://www.facebook.com/thisiscitylab>
  * <https://twitter.com/intent/user?screen_name=CityLab>
  * <https://www.linkedin.com/company/citylab-com>
  * <http://www.citylab.com/feeds/posts/>


      Newsletter sign up

Today’s Top Stories

This Week’s Most Popular Stories

I want to receive updates from partners and sponsors.


    More About CityLab

  * Special Reports <http://www.citylab.com/special-report/>
  * FAQ <http://www.citylab.com/faq/>
  * Masthead <http://www.citylab.com/masthead/>
  * Contact Us <http://www.citylab.com/contact/>
  * Store <http://www.theatlantic.com/store/>
  * Atlantic Media <http://atlanticmedia.com/>
  * Jobs <http://www.atlanticmedia.com/careers/>
  * Advertise <http://advertising.theatlantic.com/>
  * Advertising Guidelines
    <http://cdn.theatlantic.com/static/front/docs/ads/TheAtlanticAdvertisingGuidelines.pdf>
  * Privacy <http://www.citylab.com/privacy-policy/>
  * Terms & Conditions <http://www.citylab.com/terms-conditions/>


    Elsewhere at Atlantic Media


The Atlantic

<http://theatlantic.com/>

  * Today's News: Nov. 29, 2016
    <http://www.theatlantic.com/liveblogs/2016/11/news-today/508958/?utm_source=feed>
  * The Atlantic Daily: Ongoing Battles
    <http://www.theatlantic.com/newsletters/archive/2016/11/the-atlantic-daily/509078/?utm_source=feed>
  * When a Woman Sexually Assaults a Man
    <http://www.theatlantic.com/notes/2016/11/australia/509120/?utm_source=feed>


Quartz

<http://www.qz.com/>

  * South Korea says China is retaliating against its missile-defense
    system by taking aim at Korean dramas
    <http://qz.com/847900/chinas-retaliating-against-south-koreas-missile-defense-system-by-taking-aim-at-korean-dramas/>
  * The fiancée of Trump’s treasury secretary pick wrote a controversial
    “white savior” memoir
    <http://qz.com/848728/louise-linton-the-fiancee-of-trumps-treasury-secretary-pick-steven-mnuchin-wrote-a-controversial-white-savior-memoir/>
  * It’s a myth that China has 30 million “missing girls” because of the
    one-child policy, a new study says
    <http://qz.com/848715/its-a-myth-that-china-has-30-million-missing-girls-because-of-the-one-child-policy-a-new-study-says/>

Copyright 2016 The Atlantic Monthly Group.

() Skip Ad >  
Advertisement

close
