New America Media <http://newamericamedia.org/>
|   Growing Up Poor in the Bay Area
 

  * RSS

    <http://newamericamedia.org/feeds.php>
  * | NETWORK <http://newamericamedia.org/network/> |
  * | SERVICES <http://static-1.namx.org/services/HTML/index.html>
  * | POLLS <http://newamericamedia.org/sections/polls/>
  * | EVENTS <http://newamericamedia.org/sections/events/>
  * | ABOUT US <http://newamericamedia.org/about/>
  * | NEWSLETTER SIGN UP <http://newamericamedia.org/nam-newsletters.php>
  * HOME <http://newamericamedia.org/>

Browse by:

African

African American

Asian

Caribbean

European

Indigenous

Intersections

Latino

Middle Eastern

Multi-ethnic

South Asian

Today is: Nov 15, 2016

	
× <javascript:void(0)>

		 

	
powered by
	

Custom Search

Web
 
 
 
	

  * Arts & Entertainment

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/arts-entertainment/>
  * Collaborative Reporting

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/collaborative-reporting/>
  * Economy

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/economy/>
  * Education

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/education/>
  * Elders

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/elders/>
  * Environment

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/environment/>
  * Ethnic Media Headlines

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/ethnic-media-headlines/>
  * Ethnic Media Network

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/ethnic-media-network/>
  * Gender & Sexuality

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/gender-sexuality/>
  * Growing Older, Getting Poorer

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/growing-old-growing-poor/>
  * Health

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/health/>
  * Health Care Reform

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/health-care-reform/>
  * Immigration

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/immigration/>
  * International Affairs

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/international-affairs/>
  * NAM en Español

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/nam-en-espanol/>
  * Original NAM Content

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/original-nam-content/>
  * Palliative & Hospice Care

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/palliative-hospice-care/>
  * Politics & Governance

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/politics-governance/>
  * Religion

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/religion/>
  * Science & Technology

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/science-and-technology/>
  * Small Business

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/small-business/>
  * Sports

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/sports/>
  * The Movement to Expand Health Care Access

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/the-movement-to-expand-healthcare-access/>
  * Youth Culture

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/youth/>
  * Multimedia

    <#>
      o Audio

        <http://newamericamedia.org/multimedia/audio/>
      o Photo Galleries

        <http://newamericamedia.org/multimedia/photo-galleries/>
      o Video

        <http://newamericamedia.org/multimedia/video/>
  * All Stories

    <http://newamericamedia.org/archives.php>


      Bay Area Low-Income & Homeless Residents Push to Build Own Housing
      <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/01/bay-area-low-income-homeless-residents-push-to-build-housin.php>

Bay Area Low-Income & Homeless Residents Push to Build Own Housing <#>


    *Story* tools

Comments <#comments>

A

<#> A

<#> A

<#>Resize

Print <#>

Share and Email <#>

 

New America Media <http://www.newamericamedia.org/>, News Feature, Anna
Challet, Posted: Jan 04, 2016

  

OAKLAND, Calif. – In the Bay Area, where demands for affordable housing
and solutions to homelessness have reached fever pitch, some low-income
and homeless residents are taking things into their own hands – by
trying to build housing themselves.

POOR Magazine/Prensa Pobre <http://www.poormagazine.org/>, a Bay
Area-based nonprofit arts and education organization founded in 1996 and
led by people struggling with poverty and homelessness, wants to build
four eco-friendly townhouses in a multi-use lot at 80th and MacArthur
for low-income and homeless families.

Muteado Silencio, an East Oakland resident who is part of the
organization, spoke for the project at a press conference at Oakland
City Hall in late December. “We’re not asking you to house us,” he said.
“We’re asking you to let us build our own houses.”

The organization’s co-founder, Lisa “Tiny” Gray-Garcia, refers to the
plan as “a poor people-led solution to homelessness.”

Their plans have garnered the support of a recently elected Richmond
City Council member, Eduardo Martinez. “Laying your head down in a safe
place is a human right, and as government officials, it is our job to
make sure that each and every person who is under our jurisdiction has
food to eat and has a place to lay their head,” he says.

Community organizer Francisco Herrera, the only Latino candidate in San
Francisco’s most recent mayoral race, has also lent his support.

The plans have hit a snag, though. While they’ve passed zoning
requirements, according to Gray-Garcia, obtaining a building permit is
proving more difficult.

After reviewing the plans, city examiners are requiring additional
safety tests on the building materials. But even if the project passes
those tests, it may not get approved for a permit, according to Dunya
Alwan, an Oakland-based architectural designer working on the project.
“There is quite a bit of discretion in plans review and it appears that
the examiners are, despite the visionary quality of it, not amenable to
the project,” she says.

At issue in the approval process is an element that the nonprofit
considers crucial to the project – the use of straw-bale construction
for building the homes.

The vision for the project began with the purchase of the lot in
2011. The organization has since started a community garden at the site,
as well as a weekly café where food is priced on a sliding scale.

For the townhomes, the organization wants to use straw-bale
construction, an architectural method that uses bales of straw as a
building material. Alwan notes that the method has a long history and
has been used in the southwestern United States and around the globe.

It’s also affordable, she says, and locally produced and sustainable.

“These natural building materials are basically used worldwide. The
building code is designed to help make us safer, but it’s not always in
step with the times,” she says. “It’s more in step with certain building
conventions that come out of the 20th century.”

Alwan says that the city is encouraging them to look at conventional
wood frame construction, which they may have to if the straw-bale plans
are rejected.

According to Gray-Garcia, the organization has so far raised about
$100,000 from individual donors, enough for one of the four townhomes.
She says that they’ll need $2 million to fund the entire project, which
would also include a community center and a school on the site.

While being realistic about the possibility of having to shift
construction methods, Alwan says she hopes “that we get the chance to
work with planning and zoning and to work with the building inspectors
to push this as part of a model that we can use in the Bay Area.”

Gray-Garcia agrees, and envisions the project as a “template to be
shared with other communities.”

“Me and my mom were on the street when I was 11 years old. We were in
and out of motels, and the cardboard motels, the streets, because poor
families may not be able to afford to live in houses in this day and
age,” she says. “We as poor people need to self-determine our own futures.”
Edit This Entry
<http://publisher.namx.org/mt.cgi?__mode=view&_type=entry&id=14912&blog_id=19>


  * rss
    <http://newamericamedia.org/feeds/growing-up-poor-in-the-bay-area.xml>
  * Share and Email <#> |
  * Print <#> |

 


    *Comments*

California Youthwire
<http://ads.namx.org/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=727__zoneid=149__source=%7Bobfs%3A%7D__cb=6fde82a59a__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.youthwire.org%2F>
 


    *Related* Articles


          Trump Victory Alarms Vietnam
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/11/trump-victory-alarms-vietnam.php>

 The shock waves from Donald Trump’s victory are only just beginning to
reverberate around the…


          Duterte Slams Obama Anew: 'Find Out the Right Meaning of
          Dignity'
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/11/duterte-slams-obama-anew-find-out-the-right-meaning-of-dignity.php>

 PRESIDENT Rodrigo Duterte lashed out against U.S. President Barack
Obama once again after the United…


          The War on Drugs in the Philippines: A StepToward Fascism?
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/10/the-war-on-drugs-in-the-philippines-a-steptoward-fascism.php>

 On September 22, 1972, Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos declared
martial law in the Philippines, resulting…


          Duterte Declares Military, Economic Break with US
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/10/duterte-declares-military-economic-break-with-us.php>

 BEIJING — President Rodrigo Duterte announced that he is breaking both
in military and economic…


          Duterte's China Trip Puts US Ties To the Test
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/10/dutertes-china-trip-puts-us-ties-to-the-test.php>

 After lashing out at longtime ally America, the new Philippine
president is making a state…


          US Donates Military Equipment to The Philippines to Help
          Counterterrorism Efforts
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/10/us-donates-military-equipment-to-the-philippines-to-help-counterterrorism-efforts.php>

 THE United States has donated counterterrorism equipment to the
Philippine Marines on Friday, October 8,…

 
 
 
 
 
feelbetter
<http://ads.namx.org/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=781__zoneid=150__source=%7Bobfs%3A%7D__cb=751ec4e6fd__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Ffeelbetterca.org%2F>
 
Election 2016
<http://ads.namx.org/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=795__zoneid=187__source=%7Bobfs%3A%7D__cb=d63c90d091__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Fnewamericamedia.org%2Felection-2016%2Findex.php>
 


  * Home <http://newamericamedia.org/>
  * |
  * About Us <http://newamericamedia.org/about/>
  * |
  * Services/Advertise <http://static-1.namx.org/services/HTML/index.html>
  * |
  * Network <http://newamericamedia.org/network/>
  * |
  * Writer's Guidelines <http://newamericamedia.org/writers-guidelines/>
  * |
  * Privacy Policy <http://newamericamedia.org/privacy-policy/>

New America Media, 209 9th Street, Suite 200, San Francisco, CA 94103

website security <#>
	
