  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * The Cannifornian

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

The Mercury News

<http://www.mercurynews.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local

    <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * The Cannifornian

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>


        Bay Area advocates sense change in political,…
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/bay-area-advocates-sense-change-in-political-public-will-to-help-homeless/>



Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/bay-area-advocates-sense-change-in-political-public-will-to-help-homeless/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/bay-area-advocates-sense-change-in-political-public-will-to-help-homeless/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/bay-area-advocates-sense-change-in-political-public-will-to-help-homeless/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/bay-area-advocates-sense-change-in-political-public-will-to-help-homeless/#print>
*

<#>

Trending:

  * Sherri Papini case
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/sherri-papini-consultant-asked-to-find-another-missing-california-mom/>

  * 49ers should’ve kept Smith
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/purdy-the-kap-vs-alex-argument-is-settled-and-its-become-obvious-the-49ers-made-the-wrong-choice/>

  * Kim K. to divorce?
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/is-kim-kardashian-plotting-to-divorce-kanye-west/>

  * Pitt vs. Jolie
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/brad-pitt-moves-to-seal-documents-in-angelina-jolie-custody-dispute/>

  * After cold snap, rain
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/bay-area-weather-after-cold-snap-rain-on-the-way/>

  * Bay Area poverty
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/more-bay-area-residents-struggling-than-poverty-statistics-indicate/>



Business <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>


  Bay Area advocates sense change in political, public will to help
  homeless


Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/bay-area-advocates-sense-change-in-political-public-will-to-help-homeless/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/bay-area-advocates-sense-change-in-political-public-will-to-help-homeless/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/bay-area-advocates-sense-change-in-political-public-will-to-help-homeless/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/bay-area-advocates-sense-change-in-political-public-will-to-help-homeless/#print>
*

By Eric Kurhi <http://www.mercurynews.com/author/eric-kurhi/> |
ekurhi@bayareanewsgroup.com <mailto:ekurhi@bayareanewsgroup.com>	
PUBLISHED: June 28, 2016 at 12:22 pm | UPDATED: August 12, 2016 at 12:16 am

SAN JOSE — Anthony King’s time spent living on the streets began with
some bad choices he made in his late 20s and lasted a third of his life.
But today, the 46-year-old San Jose resident has found a permanent home
and a calling as an advocate for the thousands of people in Santa Clara
County who remain homeless.

King, who works for Silicon Valley DeBug, serves as a bridge between the
homeless and the government, telling public officials what those with no
permanent shelter need and advocating for efforts to solve the Bay
Area’s homelessness crisis.

“I perfectly fit the definition of what is chronic homelessness,” said
King, 46, who grew up in Milpitas but has lived in homeless camps from
Portland, Oregon, to Portland, Maine. “I can tell you that one of the
outdated notions out there is that people who are homeless want to be
homeless. Or if they’re chronically homeless they’re too far gone on
substances or too mentally ill to help, and a lot of times that’s not
the case.”

Throughout the Bay Area, cities, counties and nonprofits are employing a
range of solutions to provide the homeless with shelter. While the
number of homeless people in Santa Clara County has eased in recent
years — last year’s count of 6,556 reflected a 14 percent drop from the
previous tally — the issue has drawn more attention as the homeless
gather in encampments along creek beds and under highway overpasses.

“In a number of communities, homelessness is just more visible now,”
said Steve Berg, a policy expert with the Washington, D.C.-based
National Alliance for Ending Homelessness. “The encampment phenomenon of
people gathering together and forming little communities has made them
more visible. They often do it for personal safety, and it’s a natural
human response to band together, but it makes them more visible than if
they’ve spread themselves around.”

Now, there’s a feeling that something can be done.

“People are seeing that it’s possible to make progress, and success is
galvanizing the community,” said Rosanne Haggerty president of Community
Solutions, a New York-based nonprofit dedicated to crafting homeless
strategies. “We know we’re not helpless, and know what needs to happen.”

Santa Clara County supervisors last week voted to put a $950 million
affordable housing bond on the November ballot that’s aimed at the
lowest economic echelon — those who are homeless or at risk of becoming
homeless. Advocates are calling it a potential game-changer for local
efforts, and the priority of low-end housing has been embraced by
officials throughout the Bay Area: On Tuesday, Alameda County
supervisors advanced a $580 million bond to the ballot for similar
purposes, and San Francisco voters approved a $300 million version last
November. San Mateo County is currently mulling over something similar,
said Amie Fishman of the Nonprofit Housing Association of Northern
California.

“This is such an exciting moment,” said Fishman. “We’re seeing a
convergence of political leadership and voter support bringing it to the
fore.”

If two-thirds of voters pass the bond — and there’s a lot of people out
there depending on that to happen — Haggerty and others said it will
need to be matched by an uptick in services for those in need.

“Simply producing a new supply is insufficient to put a dent in the
homeless population,” Haggerty said. “You also have to have a
well-functioning system that is constantly identifying people who need
that support and can help them navigate the housing market and create a
whole new space around them.”

For King, that kind of turning point came in 2013 when he got involved
with Housing 1000, a community campaign that housed 850 chronically
homeless people through 2014, with an 83 percent success rate of them
remaining off the streets. It’s done by getting people into a stable
environment and then surrounding them with services that help them
stabilize their lives, kick their addictions and find jobs. The idea is
fundamental to the push by local lawmakers looking to create space for
the homeless to live in the affordable-housing wasteland of the Bay Area.

It worked for King, who now spends time creekside and below highway
overpasses talking to San Jose’s homeless to find out what they need and
deliver that message to officials who can help. He attends nearly all
government meetings dealing with homelessness and last week appeared
before the county board of supervisors. King said that in Santa Clara
County, there’s a “schism” between what case management is supposed to
do and what it actually does.

“People won’t hear from their case worker for a month and a half,” he
said, “and when they do hear from them, they’re told ‘I no longer work
there, you’re getting transferred to another agency and you need to
contact my boss to find out how that’s going to happen but it won’t
happen until the end of the month.’ And that leads to a lot of questions
and a lot of frustration among people who are trying to avail themselves.”

Haggerty agrees case management is key.

“The vast majority of people experiencing homelessness find their own
way out of it after a short-term crisis,” she said. “But there is a
group that will remain trapped there forever if not for active
intervention, and it’s that group that must be known by name, to match
them to the right resources.”

Haggerty pointed out Fremont-based Abode Services, which made news
nearly a year ago when it partnered with Santa Clara County to create a
novel “Pay for Success” program in which investors front the cost for
Abode to help the chronically homeless Haggerty is talking about.

Abode director Louis Chicoine said that so far they’ve housed over 90
people, the vast majority of whom remained with the program.

“I think we’re on the front end of really beginning to make a noticeable
change in the way we help homeless people,” he said.

According to a joint study by nonprofit Destination: Home and Santa
Clara County, 61 percent of the $520 million spent annually in Santa
Clara County on the homeless is used by just 10 percent of that
population. And that $67,000 per-person cost could be cut on average by
nearly $43,000 by getting them housed.

“We encourage people to want to end homelessness because these are our
brothers and sisters living in a way nobody should have to live,” Berg
said. “But if they can’t relate to that, we tell them they should just
do it because it’s cheaper to house them than it is to leave them on the
streets.”

Contact Eric Kurhi at 408-920-5852. Follow him at Twitter.com/erickurhi
<http://twitter.com/erickurhi>.

The homeless in Santa Clara County

According to the latest survey conducted every two years and released a
year ago, there were 6,556 who have no permanent housing in Santa Clara
County.
That figure is 14 percent lower than the 7,631 in 2013, and the lowest
level in a decade. There was a 12 percent decrease among the chronically
homeless. Of those counted, 71 percent were considered “unsheltered,”
living on the street, in encampments or in vehicles.
In San Jose, the number dropped from 4,770 in 2013 to 4,063 in 2015, a
15 percent decrease.

Review: Samsung Fixes the TV Remote
<http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>

Sponsored Content


        Review: Samsung Fixes the TV Remote
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>


By Samsung
<http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>

Geoffrey A. Fowler tests Samsung’s 2016 TVs, which have one smart
clicker to control all our cable boxes, disc players, video streamers
and apps

Eric Kurhi, Santa Clara County reporter, San Jose Mercury News. For his
Wordpress profile. (Michael Malone/Bay Area News Group)	


Eric Kurhi <http://www.mercurynews.com/author/eric-kurhi/>

Eric Kurhi is a reporter for the Bay Area News Group based at The
Mercury News. He covers Santa Clara County government and general
assignment duties. An East Bay native, he has been editing and reporting
at local newspapers since graduating from San Francisco State University
in 1997.
// Follow Eric Kurhi @erickurhi <https://twitter.com/erickurhi>
Subscribe Today! All Access Digital offer for just 99 cents!
<https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dsssubscribe.aspx>
 
You Might Also Like

  *
    Up To 50,000 Bonus Miles: Best Travel Credit Cards Up To 50,000
    Bonus Miles: Best Travel Credit Cards GET.com
    <https://www.get.com/10-best-airline-credit-cards/?ad=outbrain_airline_miles&utm_medium=cpc&utm_source=outbrain_248358&utm_campaign=outbrain_airline_miles_70153484&oclid=9933ad4029e286fa60bcfaa47f5d4b36>

  *
    Get a glimpse of an amazing future enabled by the data center in
    Servers Rock: Our Connected Earth Get a glimpse of an amazing future
    enabled by the data… Intel Servers Rock
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/310019250;137045041;h>
  *
    Tips on How To Become a Manager Tips on How To Become a Manager CAL
    STATE MONTEREY BAY
    <https://mba.csumb.edu/blog/tips-on-how-to-become-a-manager?utm_source=Outbrain&utm_medium=Online%20Media&utm_campaign=CSUMB_Native>


  *
    Why Now's The Best Time To Put Money In The Market Why Now's The
    Best Time To Put Money In The Market The Liberty Project
    <http://i.geistm.com/l/57c062c0257bc22d12389e08?utm_source=geist&utm_campaign=584847acdde95b75cf023ad3&bhid=57d01fc93f2a62f226e42f89&bcid=58485094dde95b75cf023b25&utm_content=70797861>

  *
    Why Apple is Killing the Swiss Watch Industry Why Apple is Killing
    the Swiss Watch Industry Creative State
    <https://creativestate.com/blog/Digital-Strategy-Call-with-Guest-John-Biggs>

  *
    10 Best Rewards Cards: Get $150 Bonus Cashback 10 Best Rewards
    Cards: Get $150 Bonus Cashback GET.com
    <https://www.get.com/credit-cards-best-bonus-offers/?ad=outbrain_bonus_150&utm_medium=cpc&utm_source=outbrain_248358&utm_campaign=outbrain_bonus_150_69875867&oclid=9933ad4029e286fa60bcfaa47f5d4b36>


  *
    Melania Trump’s nude photos: Who leaked them? Melania Trump’s nude
    photos: Who leaked them? MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/08/01/melania-trumps-nude-photos-who-leaked-them/>

  *
    San Jose: Authorities identify victim of deadly Jan. 7 shooting San
    Jose: Authorities identify victim of deadly Jan. 7… MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/01/12/san-jose-authorities-identify-victim-of-deadly-jan-7-shooting/>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Who is the man behind the ‘Ghost Ship’?
    Oakland warehouse fire: Who is the man behind the… MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/04/oakland-warehouse-fire-who-is-the-man-behind-the-ghost-ship/>


Recommended by<http://www.outbrain.com/what-is/default/en>

Sign up for our newsletters!

Subscribe <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
Follow Us

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>


    Most Popular

 1. Oakland fire aftermath: Evictions as artists’ worst fears come true

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/evictions-in-ghost-ships-wake-artists-worst-fears-coming-true/>

 2. Kim Kardashian is plotting to divorce Kanye West, one report says

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/is-kim-kardashian-plotting-to-divorce-kanye-west/>

 3. San Jose: Firefighters knock down abandoned home fire, suspect squatter

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-jose-firefighters-knock-down-abandoned-home-fire-suspect-squatter/>

 4. Oakland warehouse fire: Officials release names of 9 more victims

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/oakland-warehouse-fire-search-for-victims-85-percent-complete-death-toll-still-36/>

 5. Purdy: It’s now obvious the 49ers should have kept Smith, not
    Kaepernick

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/purdy-the-kap-vs-alex-argument-is-settled-and-its-become-obvious-the-49ers-made-the-wrong-choice/>

 6. Eddy Lepp free after 10-year sentence for growing marijuana

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/cannabis-convict-eddy-lepp-free-after-long-prison-term/>

 7. Sherri Papini ‘consultant’ asked to find another missing California mom

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/sherri-papini-consultant-asked-to-find-another-missing-california-mom/>

 8. Oakland: Artists, restaurant at odds over Salt Lick warehouse
    following deadly Ghost Ship blaze

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-artists-restaurant-at-odds-over-salt-lick-warehouse/>



    More in Real Estate

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/evictions-in-ghost-ships-wake-artists-worst-fears-coming-true/>

    In the few days following the Ghost Ship tragedy, artists' fears of
    a backlash against un-permitted living spaces are coming to fruition
    with some reporting they have been served eviction notices.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/evictions-in-ghost-ships-wake-artists-worst-fears-coming-true/>



              Oakland fire aftermath: Evictions as artists’ worst fears
              come true
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/evictions-in-ghost-ships-wake-artists-worst-fears-coming-true/>


    December 07, 2016, 7:33 pm

    In the few days following the Ghost Ship tragedy, artists’ fears of
    a backlash against un-permitted living spaces are coming to fruition
    with some reporting they have been served eviction notices.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/housing-groups-sue-fannie-mae-for-failure-to-take-care-of-foreclosed-properties-in-communities-of-color/>

    Foreclosed homes in majority African-American and Latino
    neighborhoods were more likely to have untended yards, debris and
    broken windows, which affected crime and property values in the
    area, suit alleges.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/housing-groups-sue-fannie-mae-for-failure-to-take-care-of-foreclosed-properties-in-communities-of-color/>



              Housing groups sue Fannie Mae over foreclosed Bay Area
              properties in communities of color
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/housing-groups-sue-fannie-mae-for-failure-to-take-care-of-foreclosed-properties-in-communities-of-color/>


    December 07, 2016, 3:52 pm

    Foreclosed homes in majority African-American and Latino
    neighborhoods were more likely to have untended yards, debris and
    broken windows, which affected crime and property values in the
    area, suit alleges.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/more-bay-area-residents-struggling-than-poverty-statistics-indicate/>

    Close to 30 percent of the Bay Area's residents, hit by high housing
    costs, aren't able to make ends meet, according to a study released
    Wednesday.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/more-bay-area-residents-struggling-than-poverty-statistics-indicate/>



              More Bay Area residents struggling than poverty statistics
              indicate
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/more-bay-area-residents-struggling-than-poverty-statistics-indicate/>


    December 07, 2016, 2:11 pm

    Close to 30 percent of the Bay Area’s residents, hit by high housing
    costs, aren’t able to make ends meet, according to a study released
    Wednesday.
    75

    <#comments>

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/after-oakland-warehouse-fire-calls-come-for-more-inspectors/>

    “We have a shortage of staff at the enforcement level and in the
    fire level,” said Councilman Noel Gallo, who represents the
    Fruitvale district where the fire happened. “We’ve been trying to
    merge the building inspectors with the fire inspectors.”
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/after-oakland-warehouse-fire-calls-come-for-more-inspectors/>



              After Oakland warehouse fire, calls come for more
              inspectors
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/after-oakland-warehouse-fire-calls-come-for-more-inspectors/>


    December 07, 2016, 12:49 pm

    “We have a shortage of staff at the enforcement level and in the
    fire level,” said Councilman Noel Gallo, who represents the
    Fruitvale district where the fire happened. “We’ve been trying to
    merge the building inspectors with the fire inspectors.”

  * Member Services <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
  * News Alerts <https://digioh.com/BANG/general?source=TakeAction>

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>

  * Subscribe

    <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx?pid=22>

    <#>
      o Manage Your Subscription <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
      o All Access Subscriptions <http://www.bayareanewsaccess.com/>
      o Today’s e-Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
      o Newsletter Sign-Up <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
      o Mobile Apps <http://www.mercurynews.com/mobile/>
  * Contact Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/contact-us/>

    <#>
      o Corrections <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/corrections/>
      o Reprints <http://www.mercurynews.com/reprints/>
      o Archive Search <http://www.mercurynews.com/archive-search/>
      o Lottery <http://www.mercurynews.com/lottery/>
  * Classifieds

    <http://marketplace.bayareanewsgroup.com/marketplace/>

    <#>
      o Autos <http://www.norcaldrives.com/>
      o Jobs <http://www.mercurynews.com/jobs/>
      o Real Estate <http://realestate.mercurynews.com/>
      o Place an Obituary
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
      o Place a Legal Ad
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/legals/index.html>
  * Advertise With Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/advertise/>

    <#>
      o Today’s Ads <http://ads.mercurynews.com/>
      o Weekly Ads <http://www.mercurynews.com/weekly-ads/>
      o Local Guide <http://mylocal.mercurynews.com/>
      o Fry’s Ad
        <http://newspaperads.mercurynews.com/FSI/tiles.aspx?advid=200177&loc=53824>
      o Public Notices <http://capublicnotice.com/>

  * © 2016 Digital First Media <http://www.digitalfirstmedia.com/>
  * Site Map <http://www.mercurynews.com/sitemap.xml>
  * Copyright <http://www.mercurynews.com/copyright/>
  * Privacy Policy <http://www.mercurynews.com/privacy-policy/>
  * Arbitration
    <http://local.digitalfirstmedia.com/common/dfm/arbitration.pdf>
  * Powered by WordPress.com VIP <https://vip.wordpress.com/>
  * Bay Area News Group

    <http://www.bayareanewsgroup.com/>


      Email This Article

Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel

<#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

Quantcast
:)
