Top highlight
Timeline <https://timeline.com/?source=logo-lo_c9c5f5ebb63f---cf5a12c2a7ad>
Follow
<https://twitter.com/Timeline_Now><https://facebook.com/timelinenews>
Sign in / Sign up
<https://medium.com/m/signin?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Ftimeline.com%2Fbeing-a-librarian-now-means-also-being-at-least-a-part-time-social-worker-f56c0c87da96>
Next story


        How Media Coverage on Homelessness Falls Short (And What
        Reporters Can Do About It)

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/how-media-coverage-on-homelessness-falls-short-and-what-reporters-can-do-about-it-1ae846cedcb?source=read_next_metabar----------43>
53
2

  * Share
  *
    53

  *
*

Go to the profile of Jeremy Miller

<https://timeline.com/@JeremyJ_Miller?source=post_header_lockup>
Jeremy Miller
<https://timeline.com/@JeremyJ_Miller?source=post_header_lockup>BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Magazine writer, teacher, dad in the East Bay. Twitter: @JeremyJ_Miller
Jun 29

------------------------------------------------------------------------


  Being a librarian now means also being at least a part-time social worker


    At San Francisco’s main branch, a balance of outreach and keeping
    a lookout

People wait for the San Francisco Public Library to open. The Main
branch of the library, where hundreds of homeless people spend their
days, is the first in the country to keep a full-time social worker on
staff. (AP Photo/Marcio Jose Sanchez)

When Mark Hall began as an entry-level librarian at San Francisco Public
Library’s Main Branch 28 years ago, he was simply looking for something
outside the corporate world. Hall was well suited to the job, and over
the years, he’s come to know almost every corner of the Main Library.
He’s weathered budget cuts, changes in management, and the controversial
1996 move into the airy building at the corner of Hyde and Grove
Streets, in Civic Center Plaza. In spite of the shifts, there is a
simplicity and timelessness to library work that has kept him grounded.
“It is a profession where you are helping people,” Hall explained, “not
trying to sell them things they don’t need.”

Today, Hall is the acting chief of the Main. The library he now oversees
is faced with what is arguably the greatest challenge of its 128-year
history. As recent visitors can attest, San Francisco’s largest library
has seen a drastic increase in the number of homeless patrons it serves.
(Some have even dubbed it a “de facto day shelter.”) Mayor Ed Lee was so
appalled by the scene he encountered during a visit in January 2014 that
he demanded the establishment of a “zero tolerance” policy. In response,
several months later, the library released its updated code of conduct.
The list of 32 prohibited behaviors — including “depositing of bodily
fluids on SFPL property” — hints at the spectrum of unsavory conduct
encountered by staff.

In a city known for innovation, tolerance, and liberal social policies,
homelessness has proven to be an intractable problem. Two out of three
of San Francisco’s homeless residents are not living in shelters but on
the street, according to federal statistics. That trend, says Hall, has
manifested itself inside the library. “There certainly weren’t as many
homeless patrons when I began,” Hall said. “But there also weren’t the
housing shortages and the income disparities and the issues with
injectable drugs. The city really has changed a lot.”

And so has being a librarian at the Main Branch. To thrive here, Hall
said, one must come to terms with the fact that it is not a sleepy
suburban branch nor a cloistered university research library. “We make
it very clear to our applicants that this isn’t always a quiet, peaceful
place,” Hall said. “People who work here must embrace that urban reality.”

Left: Frank Chavez is a longtime library patron. He often sets up his
“office” in the true crime section. Center: Carl Cohen has only started
visiting in the past year, but has already taken advantage of the
library’s outreach program. Right: Thomas Alvin recently relocated to
San Francisco looking for work. Discouraged with his housing and work
prospects, he is planning on catching a bus back to Denver. (Jeff
Enlow/Timeline)

In other words, the days of merely shushing chatty readers from behind
the reference desk are long over.

The Main’s staff of librarians and special outreach workers are not just
taking a punitive approach. They are also reaching out to homeless
patrons. The question is whether the SFPL can balance the important
civic roles of offering a historically safe place for scholarship and
learning while also providing a haven for the city’s homeless population.

Acute as the situation has become, it’s not exactly new. Katherine
Ets-Hokin, an archivist at the SFPL, recently found a black-and-white
image from the 1930s showing a large group of out-of-work men — all clad
in suits and hats — sitting on the neoclassical steps of the former Main
(today the site of the Asian Art Museum). Over the decades, familiar
laments about the main library’s apparent decline have also been
repeated. “I am ashamed to take tourists to see our Civic Center because
of the fringe of bums and winos decorating the Main Public Library,”
reads one letter to the /San Francisco Chronicle/. It was written in 1960.

Left: Homeless men sit along the original San Francisco Library
building, 1937. (Dorothea Lange/SFPL) Right: Homeless men rest alongside
the current San Francisco Library, 2016. (Jeff Enlow/Timeline)

“It’s true, libraries are warm and quiet places for people without homes
to go,” says Ryan Dowd, executive director of Hesed House, an
Illinois-based homelessness outreach group. “But they are also
sanctuaries from the tedium of homelessness. Being homeless is not just
dangerous and exhausting — it’s extremely boring.”

In 2013, Dowd created a presentation titled “A Librarian’s Guide to
Homelessness,” which he first delivered at his local public library in
Aurora, Illinois. He expected it would be a one-off. Since then he’s
traveled extensively, giving the talk at dozens of libraries across the
country and in other countries, including Canada and Estonia. (A version
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FYiEEhhrFh4> of the presentation is
also available on YouTube.)

    “What I heard a lot of was, ‘How do we serve our homeless patrons
    better?’” said Dowd. “That surprised me. It was not about minimizing
    the disruptiveness or destructiveness of homeless patrons. It was
    about how to reach out to that demographic and serve them better.”

To that end, the SFPL has built a staff of librarians for whom social
justice is an important calling. One of those staffers is Northern
California-native Andrea Davis, who began working at the SFPL last
August. Davis, 36, holds a Master’s degree in library science from
Simmons College in Boston and has worked at a number of libraries in the
U.S. and abroad. She says that the SFPL, like other large urban public
libraries, serves the “broad brush of society.”

In addition to assisting the homeless, Davis works often with the
elderly and the recently incarcerated library goers — groups that tend
to be on the opposite side of the so-called digital divide. Many of
these patrons, she says, have a sense of what they are looking for, but
often no idea about how to find it amid the library’s ever-growing
digital archives. Compounding this lack of digital knowledge is a high
prevalence of mental illness. “Even though we see some of these people
daily, it’s hard to understand exactly where they are coming from and
what they are going through.”

In spite of the job’s difficulties, Davis remains upbeat. She says in
this age of creeping privatization, urban libraries are vital
institutions. “Libraries are these democratic outposts where anyone is
welcome,” she said. “People who want to work in an urban public library
must have some awareness of social justice. It’s not just working in a
warehouse full of materials. It’s helping a wide range of people with
information in all of its forms.”

Left: Vietnam veteran Phil Means has spent many hours at the library
over the past 5 years. He is well liked and prefers to spend time in the
quieter side reading rooms. Center: Wayne Schwoob is a long time library
patron and San Francisco resident. At one point in his life he was a
regular extra on Nash Bridges. Right: Champion is new to the library and
has yet to take advantage of the HaSA program. (Jeff Enlow/Timeline)

Indeed, the SFPL’s mission goes beyond connecting people with books and
research material. In 2009, it was the first library in the country to
hire a full-time social worker. Today, its staff of seven Health and
Safety Advocates, or HaSAs — all of whom were once homeless — monitor
the library’s six floors and bathrooms, offering resources on shelters,
food kitchens, and clinics across the city to homeless patrons.

The idea for the HaSA program came about around 2000, just four years
after the completion of the new $126.5 million main branch. At the time,
homeless patrons in the library had become much more visible. “We had
this beautiful new library, and we were hearing from patrons that they
were uncomfortable coming there,” remembers the former chief of the
main, Karen Strauss. “We set out to create a bridge between the people
who come to the library as a safe and welcoming place and the resources
that they might not know are available.”

To build that bridge, the SFPL partnered with the San Francisco
Department of Public Health and, in 2009, hired Leah Esguerra, the
country’s first in-house library social worker. A licensed marriage
therapist counselor by training, Esguerra says her job has evolved
significantly over the last seven years. “When I got here, I asked my
former supervisor [at the city Department of Public Health], what am I
going to do?” Esguerra said. “She told me, ‘Start building
relationships.’ That was the best advice I ever got.”

Esguerra has done just that, creating a new model of outreach based on
empathy and personal relationships. Her job includes not just counseling
the homeless, but consulting with staff about how to interact with their
neediest patrons. The library has also partnered with the non-profit
Lava Mae, which operates a bus with showers outside the library two days
a week. (Since its program was introduced in 2009, several public
libraries across the country — including in D.C. and Denver — have
followed the SFPL’s lead, hiring their own in-house social workers.)

But the most important piece of her work — and the one she is proudest
of — are the library’s Health and Safety Associates, former homeless
people employed as outreach workers. “The HaSAs are the backbone,”
Esguerra said. “As a social worker, I can tell you to go to MSC-South
[shelter]. But the HaSAs can take it to the next level. They can say,
‘This was my experience at MSC-South.”

Jerry Munoz is one of the Main’s six HaSAs (rhymes with “casa”). Stocky
and clad in baggy blue jeans and a black T-shirt, Munoz zigzags a
well-worn path, monitoring activity on computer terminals, scouting the
desks along the margins of the stacks. In a single day, Munoz and the
other on-duty HaSAs make three or four rounds through each of the Main’s
six levels. He looks for telltale signs, like large bags stowed under
tables or bottles of prescription medication scattered across desktops.
Once he reaches the first floor he checks the men’s bathroom, to ensure
that no one is using the sinks as showers or getting high in a stall.

Jerry Munoz holds his thick binder stuffed with forms and information
about the various San Francisco social services library patrons can
potentially take advantage of. (Jeff Enlow/Timeline)

As a former homeless patron of the main library himself, Munoz knows the
choice spots—places where one can hide out from staff undetected. A
native of southern California, he was a supervisor at a J.C. Penney’s
distribution center. Then, on Father’s Day in 2010, his 25-year-old son,
Joshua, who was getting ready to enter a graduate school program at U.C.
Berkeley, died suddenly of a brain aneurysm. “Basically, I just
flipped,” he said, describing his rapid descent into alcoholism and
homelessness.

As we walk the first floor, Munoz sees an elderly man in a dirt-stained
Golden State Warriors jacket sitting in a chair, his head slumped
awkwardly forward. Munoz knocks on the wall just above him. The man’s
eyes snap open. “Sir, you can’t sleep in the library,” Munoz says,
polite but firm. Munoz asks if he can help with anything — a place to
get a meal, somewhere to sleep. The man shakes his head, staring ahead
blankly. Munoz leaves him in peace. In this job, he says, it’s important
to know when to push and when to back off.

Jerry Munoz makes his rounds around the library. He estimates does as
many as eight trips a day. (Jeff Enlow/Timeline)

“Anyone can become homeless,” he points out. “I’ve seen ex-doctors and
bankers in here. You never know when you might need the help you can
find at the library.”

In spite of the challenges in the city at large, their work appears to
be paying off. Between July and December of 2015, the team provided
resources to more than 2,500 patrons (Esguerra personally performed 437
assessments). Since the program began in 2009, around 150 clients have
been placed in permanent housing. The new code of conduct introduced
after mayor Lee’s visit also seems to be having a positive impact. In
2014, there were a total of 3,382 reported incidents; in 2015 — after
introduction of the code of conduct in October 2014 — there were 1,694.
(Although, the library does not track whether the infractions were
committed by homeless patrons or not.)

“We are a small effort here,” said Karen Strauss, pointing out that the
SFPL social work team’s overall impact isn’t easily distilled into
numbers. “It’s about providing resources, yes, but it’s so much more
than that. It’s about connections.”

The American Association of Libraries seems keenly aware of this
responsibility as well. Its Library Bill of Rights states that a
“person’s right to use a library should not be denied or abridged
because of origin, age, background, or views.” More recently, the ALA
has further defined the social justice role of libraries, going so far
as to say that it is “crucial that libraries recognize their role in
enabling poor people to participate fully in a democratic society.”

Homeless <https://timeline.com/tagged/homeless?source=post>San Francisco
<https://timeline.com/tagged/san-francisco?source=post>SFHomelessProject
<https://timeline.com/tagged/sfhomelessproject?source=post>
53
2
#
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Go to the profile of Jeremy Miller

<https://timeline.com/@JeremyJ_Miller?source=footer_card>


      Jeremy Miller <https://timeline.com/@JeremyJ_Miller>

Magazine writer, teacher, dad in the East Bay. Twitter: @JeremyJ_Miller
<http://twitter.com/JeremyJ_Miller>

#
Follow
Timeline

<https://timeline.com/?source=footer_card>


      Timeline <https://timeline.com/?source=footer_card>

News in Context

<https://timeline.com/for-more-than-100-years-soma-has-been-home-to-the-homeless-5e2d014bdd92?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
More on Homeless from Timeline
For more than 100 years, SoMa has been home to the homeless

<https://timeline.com/for-more-than-100-years-soma-has-been-home-to-the-homeless-5e2d014bdd92?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
Go to the profile of Meagan Day

<https://timeline.com/@meaganday>
Meagan Day
<https://timeline.com/@meaganday?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
30
<https://medium.com/@virginiatrotta/uncle-sam-the-rag-man-fcf8e40a767b?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Also tagged Homeless
Uncle Sam, the Rag Man

<https://medium.com/@virginiatrotta/uncle-sam-the-rag-man-fcf8e40a767b?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Go to the profile of Virginia Trotta

<https://medium.com/@virginiatrotta>
Virginia Trotta
<https://medium.com/@virginiatrotta?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
5
<https://timeline.com/the-failure-of-the-first-major-san-francisco-homeless-policy-58919ce5d018?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-45>
More on Homeless from Timeline
The failure of the first major San Francisco homeless policy

<https://timeline.com/the-failure-of-the-first-major-san-francisco-homeless-policy-58919ce5d018?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-45>
Go to the profile of Hanne Elisabeth Tidnam

<https://timeline.com/@hanne_tidnam>
Hanne Elisabeth Tidnam
<https://timeline.com/@hanne_tidnam?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-45>
4
Responses
Write a response…
Unknown user
No responses yet
Show all responses

×

Don’t miss Jeremy Miller’s next story
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Jeremy MillerJeremy Miller
