<http://invest.berkeleyside.com/>

  * Home <http://berkeleyside.com/>

<http://www.facebook.com/berkeleyside>

<http://twitter.com/berkeleyside>

<http://www.flickr.com/groups/berkeleyside/>

<http://feeds.feedburner.com/berkeleyside/XGaT>
		 

	
powered by
	

  *

Yellow tags marked the location of evidence at the 2010 shooting scene.
Photo: Frances Dinkelspiel
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/12/07/convicted-killer-sentenced-to-118-years-to-life-after-berkeley-shooting/>

Convicted killer sentenced to 118 years to life
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/12/07/convicted-killer-sentenced-to-118-years-to-life-after-berkeley-shooting/>

German School
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/12/07/future-uncertain-for-berkeley-school-due-to-unsafe-building/>

Future uncertain for Berkeley school due to unsafe building
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/12/07/future-uncertain-for-berkeley-school-due-to-unsafe-building/>

Photo: Courtesy of Ben Gould
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/12/07/ben-gould-enters-campaign-for-district-4-council-seat/>

Ben Gould enters campaign for District 4 council seat
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/12/07/ben-gould-enters-campaign-for-district-4-council-seat/>



  <http://www.berkeleyside.com/>

Skip to content

<#content>

  * NOSH

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/nosh/>
  * All the News

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/all-the-news/>
  * Events

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/events-calendar/#/94703-berkeley/all/today>
  * Op-Eds

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/category/opinionator/>
  * Obituaries

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/category/obituaries/>
  * About

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/about-berkeleyside/>
  * Advertise

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/advertise/>
  * Support us

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/support-us-by-becoming-a-member/>
  * Invest

    <https://invest.berkeleyside.com/>

Get Berkeleyside's Daily Briefing email

Community <http://www.berkeleyside.com/category/community-2/>


  Berkeleyside will focus on homelessness Wednesday

June 28, 2016 4:00 pm by Berkeleyside Editors
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/author/berkeleyside-editors/>	
Sleeping it off by Film&PhotoArchivist -
https://www.flickr.com/photos/filmtwit/20916677646/in/dateposted/
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/filmtwit/20916677646/in/dateposted/>

Sleeping it off. Photo: Film&PhotoArchivist
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/filmtwit/20916677646/in/dateposted/>

On Wednesday, Berkeleyside will devote the entire day to stories about
the homeless. We are joining 70 media organizations around the Bay Area
to do a “deep dive” into the complex issue.

The group of newspapers, TV and radio stations, websites and community
newspapers is calling the endeavor the San Francisco Homeless Project
(since it was spearheaded by the San Francisco Chronicle). Through a
series of articles, newscasts, photos, videos and opinion pieces, the
project will explore the roots of homelessness, who the homeless are,
how they survive, and what can be done to end homelessness.

Many of the stories will be published on a Chronicle page and one that
Medium has set up. <https://sfhomelessproject.com/>

Berkeleyside has a number of articles planned, including an overview of
the issue, statistics about the homeless, a timeline of homelessness in
Berkeley, a photo essay, and feature stories about homeless people and
the agencies that serve them. We will also include responses to a
questionnaire we posted
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/21/share-your-questions-about-homelessness-in-berkeley/>.

homeless logoLike other media outlets, Berkeleyside is aiming to run
only stories on homelessness Wednesday. (Significant breaking news may,
however, get in the way of that goal.) It is our way to highlight an
important issue, one that seems to be getting worse.

We hope our readers will appreciate a broad look at a perplexing
problem, and that the homeless in Berkeley will appreciate this attempt
to begin to bring some of their stories to light.

Know that this project represents just one point in time, and that our
team will continue to look at this issue going forward.

*If you rely on Berkeleyside, help support independent local journalism
by becoming a member
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/support-us-by-becoming-a-member/> today.
See past Berkeleyside coverage of homelessness
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-homelessness/>.*

15 Comments
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/28/berkeleyside-along-with-70-media-outlets-will-focus-on-homelessness-wednesday/#disqus_thread>

Email
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/28/berkeleyside-along-with-70-media-outlets-will-focus-on-homelessness-wednesday/email/> Email
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/28/berkeleyside-along-with-70-media-outlets-will-focus-on-homelessness-wednesday/email/>

Print Friendly <#>
Tagged Berkeley Homeless Project
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-homeless-project/>, Berkeley
homelessness <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-homelessness/>,
SF Homeless Project
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/sf-homeless-project/>, SFHP
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/sfhp/>

« How Quirky is Berkeley? Kingman Hall’s quirky murals
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/28/how-quirky-is-berkeley-kingman-halls-quirky-murals/>
The Berkeley Wire: 06.28.16 »
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/28/the-berkeley-wire-06-28-16/>
Please keep our community civil. Comments should remain on topic and be
respectful.
Read our full comments policy »
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/comments-policy/>

  *

     
  *

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
  *
     

  *


          Categories

    Categories

  *


          Tags

    Alameda County district attorney's office
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/alameda-county-district-attorneys-office/>
    Berkeley business news
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-business-news/> Berkeley
    City Council
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-city-council/> Berkeley
    crime <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-crime/> Berkeley
    dining <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-dining/> Berkeley
    elections <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-elections/>
    Berkeley Fire Department
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-fire-department/> Berkeley
    High School <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-high-school/>
    Berkeley music <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-music/>
    Berkeley Police <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-police/>
    Berkeley politics
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-politics/> Berkeley real
    estate <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-real-estate/>
    Berkeley robberies
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-robberies/> Berkeley
    schools <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-schools/> Berkeley
    Unified School District
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-unified-school-district/>
    Berkeley urban planning
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-urban-planning/> Berkeley
    Wire <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-wire/> Best of
    Berkeleyside <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/best-of-berkeleyside/>
    Big Screen Berkeley
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/big-screen-berkeley/> Bites: What’s
    new in East Bay food
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/bites-whats-new-in-east-bay-food/>
    Books <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/books/> Downtown Berkeley
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/downtown-berkeley/> Guns in
    Berkeley <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/guns-in-berkeley/>
    Homicide in Berkeley
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-homicide/> Housing in
    Berkeley <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/housing-in-berkeley/>
    Jennifer Coats <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/jennifer-coats/>
    Jesse Arreguin <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/jesse-arreguin/>
    Mayor Tom Bates <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/mayor-tom-bates/>
    Movies <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/movies/> North Berkeley
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/north-berkeley/> Nosh Wire
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/nosh-wire/> Oakland dining
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/oakland-dining/> Public safety
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/public-safety/> Recent crime in
    Berkeley <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/recent-crime-in-berkeley/>
    Shattuck Avenue <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/shattuck-avenue/>
    Shootings in Berkeley
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/shootings-in-berkeley/> Shop Talk
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/shop-talk/> South Berkeley
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/south-berkeley/> Telegraph Avenue
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/telegraph-avenue/> Theater in
    Berkeley <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/theater-in-berkeley/> UC
    Berkeley <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/uc-berkeley/> University
    of California Police Department
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/university-of-california-police-department/>
    West Berkeley <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/west-berkeley/> What
    to do in Berkeley this weekend
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/what-to-do-in-berkeley-this-weekend/>
    Where in Berkeley? <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/where-in-berkeley/>

  *


          Archives

    June 2016 M 	T 	W 	T 	F 	S 	S
    « May <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/05/> 	  	Jul »
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/07/>
     	1 <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/01/>	2
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/02/>	3
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/03/>	4	5
    6 <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/06/>	7
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/07/>	8
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/08/>	9
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/09/>	10
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/10/>	11	12
    13 <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/13/>	14
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/14/>	15
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/15/>	16
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/16/>	17
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/17/>	18	19
    20 <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/20/>	21
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/21/>	22
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/22/>	23
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/23/>	24
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/24/>	25
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/25/>	26
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/26/>
    27 <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/27/>	28
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/28/>	29
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/>	30
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/30/> 	 

  *


          Site info

      o Log in <https://www.berkeleyside.com/wp-login.php>
      o Entries RSS <http://www.berkeleyside.com/feed/>
      o Comments RSS <http://www.berkeleyside.com/comments/feed/>
      o WordPress.org <https://wordpress.org/>

© 2016 *Berkeleyside* All Rights Reserved. | Design by Doug Ng
<http://design-ng.com/>

<http://invest.berkeleyside.com/>
Search ResultsClose
Custom Search

Web
 
 
 
	

	
