<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/> Beyond Homelessness

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>
//
<https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fencampments%2F&text=Can%20law%20enforcement%20curb%20the%20crisis%3F&hashtags=SFHomelessProject>
// <#>
//
<mailto:?subject=Can%20law%20enforcement%20curb%20the%20crisis%3F&body=SF%20Homeless%20Project%3A%20Would%20stronger%20enforcement%20of%20laws%20against%20street%20camping%20and%20petty%20crime%20reduce%20homelessness%3F%0A%0Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fencampments%2F>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
Beyond Homelessness <http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>
//
<https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fencampments%2F&text=Can%20law%20enforcement%20curb%20the%20crisis%3F&hashtags=SFHomelessProject>
// <#>
//
<mailto:?subject=Can%20law%20enforcement%20curb%20the%20crisis%3F&body=SF%20Homeless%20Project%3A%20Would%20stronger%20enforcement%20of%20laws%20against%20street%20camping%20and%20petty%20crime%20reduce%20homelessness%3F%0A%0Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fencampments%2F>


  Enforcing laws, changing attitudes

Would stronger enforcement of laws against street camping and petty
crime reduce homelessness?

By Kurtis Alexander

June 29, 2016

July 1, 2015 A homeless man drags his tent down the sidewalk on 13th
Street between Bryant and Harrison as a Public Works Department crew
begins cleaning an encampment. Crews regularly visit encampments to
disinfect the ground and remove trash.Photo: Loren Elliott, The Chronicle

The stretch of sidewalk outside Sweet Peas Preschool in the Mission
District is nothing special. Just a few squares of concrete.

However, for the tiny legs that dart between parents’ cars and the
campus entrance, the pavement is at times an obstacle course of used
heroin needles and human feces — and an enduring sign of the city’s
failure to get a handle on its most troublesome street behavior.

About this project:

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>

The San Francisco Chronicle has joined with more than 70 other news
organizations to focus attention on the seemingly intractable problem of
homelessness in our region.

Read the letter to the city
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/letter-to-the-city/>.

Other stories and multimedia elements of this project can be found at
sfchronicle.com/homeless <http://sfchronicle.com/homeless>.

School director Samantha Dionne is sympathetic to the plight of homeless
people. She gives food to an elderly man who sleeps out front. But
shooting up and defecating in public when the children are near goes too
far, said Dionne, who has started to call authorities, though with
limited effect.

“The police came, they searched them and the police leave, and they’re
still there. That’s the part I don’t understand,” Dionne said after one
of her calls to the city’s 311 service center.

Video: Tim Hussin, The Chronicle

With San Francisco’s homeless crisis showing no sign of letting up, some
residents and businesses are demanding the city do more to control the
fallout: stop open-air drug use, end threatening street behavior, get
rid of mushrooming tent camps.

Earlier this year, police led the clearing of a 250-person tent city
under an elevated freeway on Division Street. Some residents would like
to see smaller encampments similarly targeted, rather than be allowed to
remain for weeks or months.

Such a crackdown would require the city to reassign dozens of officers
from their current duties to camp sweeps. If the inhabitants refused to
move, the city could have to spend money on additional prosecutors,
courts and jails to enforce antivagrancy laws.

But policy experts say — and city history confirms — that law
enforcement can accomplish only so much when it comes to the people who
live on the streets, given the stew of poverty, drug addiction and
mental illness. Issuing tickets and locking people up doesn’t get at the
causes of homelessness, much less find people homes.

This does not mean, however, that there’s no role for policing.

Law enforcement and city officials, as well as advocates for the
homeless, are nearly unanimous in arguing that the justice system works
best when it’s used to steer homeless people to get the help they need
to stabilize their lives — financial and housing assistance, drug rehab
and counseling.

In many ways, this is what San Francisco is already doing. Police
officers routinely work with health and human-service agencies, as do
the courts. But there are ways to get better results, the experts say,
and almost all involve support from outside criminal justice.

June 9, 2016 Jamil Ross, right, sets up a tent in the Inner Mission
after he took it down earlier when police asked him and his friends to
move. Ross, who is from the Bayview neighborhood, started sleeping on
the street after a residential hotel became too expensive.Photo: Tim
Hussin, The Chronicle

Among the ideas:

#

Increase the number of outreach workers and psychiatric experts who
patrol with police, offering homeless people help or referrals to care.

#

Expand the city’s shelters and make more accommodations to homeless
people, such as allowing pets and longer stays, to give police something
to sell when they’re trying to talk a person off the streets.

#

Build a system for enforcing nuisance-behavior citations, which many
homeless people are now free to ignore because the courts seldom follow
up. Enforcing them could be a way to leverage people into getting help.

#

Allow officers who have cause to arrest someone on the streets to divert
them to immediate addiction treatment.

‘A revolving door’

On a recent morning, two blocks from Sweet Peas Preschool, Officer Gary
Kunaboot made the rounds on his homeless beat, asking about a half dozen
people near 18th and Florida streets to take down their tents and leave.

It’s the same thing Kunaboot did the day before. And he wasn’t the only
one. Twenty-six San Francisco cops assigned to work with homeless people
regularly respond to complaints, about 2 percent of the 1,360 sworn
officers working in the city. Some team with Public Works crews to clear
camps and wash sidewalks in a vast predawn exercise that repeats daily.

“It’s a revolving door,” Kunaboot said. “We often see the same subjects
over and over. Sometimes we see them more than their families do.”

Kunaboot and other officers carry a list of resources that might benefit
those on the sidewalk — telling them where to get a shelter bed and
where to seek help for a problem. Sometimes they’re accompanied by
members of the city Homeless Outreach Team, which has had success
diagnosing people’s needs on the spot and directing them to treatment.

On this day, the campers roused from sleep weren’t interested in
services — they’d heard the menu of programs before. Instead, the small
group grudgingly packed up sleeping bags, clothes and other belongings
in old suitcases and shopping carts.

In San Francisco, at least three dozen statutes govern conduct on the
street, including a ban on residing on property without permission and
quality-of-life rules against loitering, drinking in public and blocking
the sidewalk. Most of these crimes are low-level infractions that yield
a citation, not an arrest.

Video: Tim Hussin, The Chronicle

While Kunaboot has at times pressed for charges against homeless people,
he said he didn’t cite those near the preschool because they were
cooperative. Taking action takes time, he noted, especially making an
arrest and jailing someone, which can keep him from responding to
complaints on the next block.

“Is the solution really to book?” he said. “They’ll just be back right
here and do it again.”

Tickets brushed aside

Among the campers in the Mission was Martell Serrao, 34, a San Francisco
native who two years ago was studying at City College and catering
banquets. He lost his job, he said, and couldn’t afford rent. He said he
won’t stay in shelters because they’re uncomfortable and have too many
rules — he would have to come and go at certain times and limit what he
keeps with him. The shelters also tend to fill up.

“I saw people camping out here and I said, ‘Hey, I might try that,’” he
said.

Serrao has been cited 20 to 30 times for obstructing sidewalks, by his
count, and spent a few days in jail.

“I can’t pay the fines. I don’t have a job,” Serrao said while stuffing
everything he owns into a single backpack. “I guess they (cite you) to
scare you away, so you won’t come back. But just because we got a
citation doesn’t mean we’ll run away or disappear.”

May 26, 2016 Martell Serrao packs up his belongings after police asked
him to move his encampment on Florida and 16th streets.Photo: Tim
Hussin, The Chronicle

As many as 90 percent of homeless people cited by police don’t pay the
average $150 penalty, according to the San Francisco Coalition on
Homelessness. People who are cited have the option of going to court,
where a judge will often drop the fine if they agree to perform
community service or enroll in a program aimed at helping them off the
streets.

Like Serrao, however, most don’t do anything — and rarely is there
consequence.

Although the courts can issue arrest warrants for those who don’t pay
penalties or go to court, the 1,634 usable beds in city jails are close
to 80 percent full on most days. Sheriff’s Department officials say much
of the vacancy is needed as a cushion so they can shuffle around and
appropriately house higher-level offenders and those with special needs.

What’s more, Superior Court leaders decided last fall to stop issuing
arrest warrants for people who ignore quality-of-life citations.
Officials say the decision was made in part to put such crimes on par
with other infractions — such as traffic violations, which trigger an
additional $300 penalty for those who don’t settle up, but not an arrest
— and in part to save staff time and taxpayers’ money.

Court officials also have long contended that arresting homeless people
doesn’t deal with underlying problems. However, some, including retired
judge and former city Supervisor Quentin Kopp, say the lack of follow-up
on tickets diminishes the integrity of the courts and has repercussions
for others in the justice system, like police officers.

“If I’m a cop and my actions over multiple citations and arrests result
in no judicial enforcement, naturally as a human being, you say, ‘Why
bother?’” Kopp said.

A humbling history

The poster program for cracking down in San Francisco remains Matrix, a
policy of sweeps rolled out from 1993 to 1995 by then-Mayor Frank
Jordan, a onetime police chief.

The effort coincided with the introduction of a handful of laws
targeting nuisance street crime, including a prohibition on panhandling
next to ATMs. It led to tens of thousands of quality-of-life citations
and arrests.

Jordan defends the program to this day, saying it enabled the city to
clear camps and dangerous elements from downtown areas like Union
Square. Critics, however, say it only pushed people into adjacent
neighborhoods, and most estimates suggest the city’s homeless count
didn’t change much in those years.

June 9, 2016 Tony Cook, who has lived on the streets of San Francisco
for almost 39 years, pokes his head outside his camp on Harrison Street.
He said he's received about 90 tickets for illegal camping over the past
10 years but hasn't paid any of the fines.Photo: Tim Hussin, The Chronicle

Jordan, now retired and still living in the city, said Matrix teamed
police with social and health care workers to help homeless people. He
disputed criticism, which he called political, that it was just
heavy-handed policing.

“As a former chief of police, people painted it as a semi-militaristic
program,” he said.

The controversy contributed to Jordan’s election defeat in 1995, but
citations for nuisance behavior continued at a similar pace under Mayors
Willie Brown and Gavin Newsom. In 2010, Newsom shepherded the sit-lie
law, which targeted the young street population in the Haight-Ashbury.
Both mayors emphasized housing as pivotal to reducing homelessness.

Complaints key, and rising

Today, the city continues to enforce quality-of-life crimes, issuing
more than 27,000 citations in 2014, the latest full year of data
available. Although police don’t track whether such offenses are
committed by people with or without a home, officials say the bulk of
the violations are linked to homelessness.

Almost all of the enforcement stems from complaints from residents and
businesses rather than proactive police sweeps. And complaints are
increasing, hitting about 65,000 in 2015, according to the Department of
Emergency Management.

The reactive approach is expensive. The Board of Supervisors’ budget
analyst reported in May that police response to quality-of-life
complaints last year cost $18.5 million, and in the vast majority of
cases, the review found that no enforcement action was taken.

Critics on all sides say something has to change.

“It’s a phenomenal waste of money,” said Jennifer Friedenbach, executive
director of the Coalition on Homelessness, which advocates for homeless
people. “We’re putting all these police resources into moving people
maybe a block. Instead, we could be housing people. Then we wouldn’t
have the suffering that people are experiencing, and there wouldn’t be
the complaints from residents.”

Moving forward

Lt. Michael Nevin, who heads the Police Department’s homeless unit and
organizes the morning patrols with Public Works crews and the Homeless
Outreach Team, says assistance from outside law enforcement is vital to
getting people off the streets.

“If I thought issuing citations would guarantee that people turn their
lives around, I would encourage officers to issue thousands more than
they currently do,” Nevin said. “But at the end of the day, something
has to turn in a more positive direction.”

One possible shift, which could not only save money but target the root
causes of homelessness, is getting more counselors and clinicians
instead of police to respond to complaints about homeless people. It’s a
goal the city is already moving toward: In 2014, the city doubled the
number of outreach workers on the Homeless Outreach Team, which now has 31.

Outreach specialists and social workers generally cost the city between
$64,000 and $103,000 annually in salary and benefits.

In some of San Francisco’s high-profile crackdowns on encampments in
recent years, outreach workers sought to find places to stay for
homeless people before the police moved in. At a camp at Fifth and King
streets in the shadow of Interstate 280, 50 residents were moved into a
church, then directed to housing and services before the settlement was
cleared in 2012.

The sweep on Division Street under Highway 101 in March didn’t go quite
as smoothly. But opening a temporary 150-bed shelter at Pier 80 was key
to the effort, a component that many police officers say needs to be
expanded.

“I would hope to see enough resources to provide adequate shelter for
folks who need it,” Nevin said. “I think any cop would tell you that. We
don’t want to see anyone living on the streets.”

The city maintains about 1,300 shelter beds — well short of the
estimated 3,500 people who sleep on San Francisco streets each night.
The city’s biennial count of homeless people totaled around 6,700 in
2015, though many officials and advocates for the homeless say the true
number could be 10,000 or more.

Some say money for shelters is better spent on long-term housing. But
more shelter beds with fewer limitations could help police make their
case to homeless people to move indoors.

The Navigation Center in the Mission District, a dormitory-style shelter
with few preconditions and robust ties to city services, has gained
national praise for its success getting people off the street. On June
14, the Board of Supervisors voted to commit the city to adding six more
such shelters over the next two years. A 75-bed center could cost up to
$3 million to open and $4 million to $6 million a year to operate.

A role for the robes

The court system can also do more to direct homeless people off the streets.

San Francisco Superior Court, the district attorney’s office and the
public defender’s office have united behind diversion programs that
steer those charged with nonviolent crimes into treatment rather than jail.

“Incarceration is actually inimical to trying to end criminal conduct,”
said Judge Jeffrey Ross, who runs an alternative courtroom where
military veterans are urged to get help to stabilize their lives.

June 9, 2016 April Martin, 35, puts on makeup at a homeless camp in San
Francisco. Martin is a mother of three and ended up on the streets six
months ago. "You just can't get ahead," she said. "It seems unattainable
to get an apartment, so many don't even try."Photo: Tim Hussin, The
Chronicle

Although diversion efforts have succeeded in getting help for defendants
facing jail time for crimes like theft, such programs generally haven’t
worked for those who commit quality-of-life crimes. These offenses
typically carry no threat of incarceration — and no incentive for people
to agree to services.

Some critics say the city is hamstrung by its liberal ethic and needs to
pursue stiffer charges and penalties for nuisance crimes, in part by
bringing misdemeanor cases against those who don’t resolve multiple
citations. This would probably require an expansion of the courts and
possibly more jail space. But it would also give the justice system more
power to push defendants into programs.

As it is, the courts are moving in the other direction, having done away
with arrest warrants for people who fail to show up to answer for
quality-of-life citations. Before, under a multiagency effort aimed at
chronic offenders, prosecutors could charge people who ignored 20 or
more citations with a misdemeanor for failing to appear. That allowed
sheriff’s deputies to arrest the offender and get the case before a judge.

“With no bench warrants being issued, it takes away an avenue,” said
Alex Bastian, a spokesman for the district attorney’s office.

Prosecutors are still going after repeat violators, but by building
public-nuisance cases instead. In April, the district attorney’s office
won a one-year jail sentence, tied to drug treatment, for a woman who
consistently harassed people in the Castro neighborhood. But the effort
required many hours of police work, far more than the chronic offender
program.

The Police Department is working to launch a plan to get some violators
help before they’re arrested. Partnering with city health workers,
police intend to give suspected drug users in the Tenderloin and Mission
the option of going into immediate treatment rather than being booked
for a crime.

What is clear is that while few want homelessness criminalized, policing
that is compassionate but insistent must play a role in helping people
and getting them off the streets.

Finding a ‘middle ground’

Sam Dodge, director of the mayor’s Housing Opportunity, Partnerships and
Engagement office, acknowledges the fine line between too little law
enforcement and too much.

“We want to lead with social services, but you also want to say it’s not
OK to squat here indefinitely,” Dodge said. “We need to find this middle
ground.”

City leaders will learn a lot about where voters stand in November. A
ballot initiative by Supervisor Mark Farrell would specifically allow
authorities to remove encampments and hold residents’ personal
belongings, as long as they give a day of notice and offer a shelter bed
or other place to stay. The measure — which wouldn’t change police
powers much — is more a referendum on current police practices.

Jan. 7, 2016 Ana Held, 29, camps under the Central Freeway on 13th
Street in San Francisco. This area was cleared out before San Francisco
hosted the Super Bowl in February.Photo: Tim Hussin, The Chronicle

For many along Florida Street in the Mission, the scales have tipped too
far in one direction.

Employees at McCalls Catering and Events, which operates out of a
building near Sweet Peas Preschool, said the tents on the sidewalk have
become scary to walk past, especially at night. Some of the campers,
they said, are engaged in drug use, prostitution and bike theft.

“They’re clearly high and unpredictable,” said Kirsty Gumina, a manager
at McCalls who described herself as a “liberal Oaklander” who never
thought she’d be calling the police to complain about homeless people.
“Police should enforce the laws that are on the books. It’s not legal to
put a tent on the street.”

At the preschool, Dionne, the director, bristled at the thought that she
and the children have to accept the deterioration of their community.

“It’s unfortunate,” she said, “that this is what we have to get used to
in San Francisco.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Reporter

Kurtis Alexander • kalexander@sfchronicle.com
<mailto:kalexander@sfchronicle.com> • @kurtisalexander
<https://twitter.com/kurtisalexander>

Interactive producers

Lucio Villa • lvilla@sfchronicle.com <mailto:lvilla@sfchronicle.com> •
@luciovilla <https://twitter.com/luciovilla>
Benjamin Din • bdin@sfchronicle.com <mailto:bdin@sfchronicle.com> •
@benjamindin <https://twitter.com/benjamindin>
Emma O'Neill • eoneill@sfchronicle.com <mailto:eoneill@sfchronicle.com>
• @emmaruthoneill <https://twitter.com/emmaruthoneill>
------------------------------------------------------------------------


        Editorial: SF's homeless problem a civic disgrace

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/civic-disgrace>


        Solution starts with supportive housing

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/supportive-housing>


        The mentally ill: Streets' costliest residents

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/mental-health>


        Can the shelter system be successful?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/shelters>


        A problem that looked the same 20 years ago

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/overview>


        How many people live on our streets?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/numbers>


        Portraits of life on SF's streets

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/faces-of-the-streets>


        How SF's last 5 mayors tackled homelessness

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/letters-from-the-mayors>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>


    The sign in service is not functioning right now.


    Please try again in a few minutes

If the issues continue, please contact our customer service at

Phone:

Email:


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in


Don't have a profile?


            Don't have a subscription?

Sign up Subscribe

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a profile using


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password
Send me email offers

Already have a profile? Sign In

By clicking "Next" or signing in you confirm that you accept our Terms
and Conditions <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and have read
and understood our Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in


          Hi,


          You are signed in

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>

Maintain your delivery address, payment details and place a vacation
hold in Subscriber Portal.

MANAGE SUBSCRIPTION

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/account/>

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>
SUBSCRIBE

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>
SIGN OUT

<javascript:void(0)>


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our
Terms of Service <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy
Policy <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign In

Keep me signed in
Show password Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Paid Subscription Access Only

You are now signed in but you must have a San Francisco Chronicle
subscription to access any content.

Already have a subscription?

ACTIVATE

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fencampments%2F>


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          About Me

DISPLAY NAMEDisplay names must begin with an alpha-numeric character.
They can not contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor
may they contain obscenities.

This display name is already in use. Please enter a different display name.

You must enter a display name.

Display names must begin with an alpha-numeric character. They can not
contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor may they
contain obscenities.

EMAIL ADDRESSChanging this email address will also change the email
address associated with your subscription

You must enter an email address.

GENDERThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

BIRTH YEARThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

* are required fields


          SF Chronicle Subscription

You can manage your delivery address, payment details, delete your
account and more subscription details in the subscriber portal.

Manage Subscription

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/account/>


            Get it on all your devices


    Unlimited digital access with every subscription

SFChronicle.com | App for iPhone and iPad
e-edition (daily print replica) | Exclusive member experiences and discounts

SUBSCRIBE NOW AND SAVE!

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/> I have a subscription

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fencampments%2F>


          Password

EDIT

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.


          Password

CANCEL

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.

CURRENT PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Current password is incorrect

Current password field is required

NEW PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain both
upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

New password field is required

CONFIRM PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Confirm password field is required

Show password


    Welcome, !

Your profile, subscription, linked accounts, and newsletter selections
are not viewable by other readers on our sites. Your profile can only be
seen by you. Any comments you post to articles on our sites can be seen
by all readers and moderators.


          Newsletter Preferences

You are subscribed to the following:

  * Top O’ the Bay

    The latest stories from across the San Francisco Bay Area

  * Notes & Errata

    Mark Morford's irreverent and highly satiric weekly column

  * Breaking News

    Be notified when when big stories break or critical warnings are
    issued for the Bay Area

  * Sports

    Coverage of all your Bay Area teams

  * Inside Scoop

    Insider knowledge for Bay Area foodies

  * New Flicks

    The latest movie reviews

  * Business & Technology

    The latest in business, finance, and tech news

  * 5 Things To Do

    Great events across the Bay Area selected just for you


          San Francisco Chronicle Newsletters

  * Chronicle Commuter

    A curated selection of stories just in time for your afternoon commute

  * Membership Updates

    The latest from our membership benefits program (subscribers only)

  * e-edition Reminder

    Reminder of your daily e-edition, a replica of the print newspaper
    (subscribers only)

  * Subscription Reminders

    Notices and reminders about your subscription (subscribers only)


          Email Notifications and Offers

  * Feature Updates

    Special features, new site sections and more from The Chronicle and
    SFGATE

  * Promotions & Sales

    Subscription offers from the San Francisco Chronicle and other
    special promotions

  * Surveys

    Surveys about your Chronicle print edition, websites and other
    digital products

  * Advertiser Special Offers

    Receive special offers sent by us on behalf of select advertisers
    and partners

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in Forgot Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

You must be a subscriber to access this content.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

Stay signed in
Forgot Your Password?


          Sign In

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Back to Sign In

Email address field is required.

Email address is incorrect.

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


          Link Profiles

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot Your Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Forgot Your Password?


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Link Profiles

Stay signed in

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Forgot Your Password?


          SIGN IN


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot Your Password?
Keep me signed in


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Sign In With Your Existing San Francisco Chronicle Account
Sign In
OR

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Keep me signed in
Forgot Your Password?

By signing in, you agree to our terms of use
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/>.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password?

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in
Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot password?

Create an account

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a sign-in for your subscription account


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password

Have a profile on SFGate or San Francisco Chronicle already?

Sign In

Contact Customer Service at 800-310-2455 or email us at
homedelivery@sfchronicle.com <mailto:homedelivery@sfchronicle.com>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in

