Have you seen BuzzFeed English? Check it out

<https://www.buzzfeed.com/?country=us> <#>
Buzzfeed

<https://www.buzzfeed.com/> news <https://www.buzzfeed.com/news>

  * News

    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/news>
  * Videos

    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/videos>
  * Quizzes

    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/quizzes>
  * Tasty

    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/tasty>
  * DIY

    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/diy>
  * More
    BuzzFeed Community <https://www.buzzfeed.com/community> Make A Post!
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/post>
    SECTIONS
      o Animals <https://www.buzzfeed.com/animals>
      o Audio <https://www.buzzfeed.com/audio>
      o Big Stories <https://www.buzzfeed.com/bigstories>
      o Books <https://www.buzzfeed.com/books>
      o Business <https://www.buzzfeed.com/business>
      o Buzz <https://www.buzzfeed.com/buzz>
      o Celebrity <https://www.buzzfeed.com/celebrity>
      o Entertainment <https://www.buzzfeed.com/entertainment>
      o Food <https://www.buzzfeed.com/food>
      o Geeky <https://www.buzzfeed.com/geeky>
      o Health <https://www.buzzfeed.com/health>
      o LGBT <https://www.buzzfeed.com/lgbt>
      o Life <https://www.buzzfeed.com/life>
      o Music <https://www.buzzfeed.com/music>
      o Parents <https://www.buzzfeed.com/parents>
      o Podcasts <https://www.buzzfeed.com/podcasts>
      o Politics <https://www.buzzfeed.com/politics>
      o Puzzles <https://www.buzzfeed.com/puzzles>
      o Reader <https://www.buzzfeed.com/reader>
      o Rewind <https://www.buzzfeed.com/rewind>
      o Science <https://www.buzzfeed.com/science>
      o Sports <https://www.buzzfeed.com/sports>
      o Style <https://www.buzzfeed.com/style>
      o Tech <https://www.buzzfeed.com/tech>
      o Travel <https://www.buzzfeed.com/travel>
      o Weddings <https://www.buzzfeed.com/weddings>
      o World <https://www.buzzfeed.com/world>
      o Advertise <https://www.buzzfeed.com/advertise>
      o Jobs <https://www.buzzfeed.com/about/jobs>
      o Mobile <https://www.buzzfeed.com/tools/mobile-ios>
      o Newsletters <https://www.buzzfeed.com/tools/email>
      o Shop <http://shop.buzzfeed.com/>
      o US Edition <javascript:;>
          + US Edition

          + UK Edition

          + Australia

          + Brasil

          + Canada

          + Deutschland

          + España

          + Español

          + France

          + India

          + Japan

          + México

      o About <https://www.buzzfeed.com/about>
      o Press <https://www.buzzfeed.com/press>
      o RSS <https://www.buzzfeed.com/tools/more>
      o Privacy <https://www.buzzfeed.com/about/privacy>
      o User Terms <https://www.buzzfeed.com/about/useragreement>
      o Ad Choices <https://www.buzzfeed.com/about/privacy#adchoices>
      o Help <https://www.buzzfeed.com/help/faq>
      o Contact <https://www.buzzfeed.com/about/contact>
      o © 2016 BuzzFeed, Inc
    Made in NY

    <http://wearemadeinny.com/>

Get Our News App <https://bit.ly/1FMEqBv>

<javascript:;>

  * NEW POST

    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/post>
  * MY PROFILEMY POSTS0

    <javascript:;>
  * MY DRAFTSMY DRAFTS

    <javascript:;>
  * MY DASHBOARDDASHBOARD

    <javascript:;>
  * SWITCH USERFEEDS/USERS

    <javascript:;>
  * SETTINGS

    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/settings>
  * SIGN OUT

    <javascript:;>

<javascript:;>

  * NEW POST

    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/post>
  * MY PROFILEMY POSTS0

    <javascript:;>
  * MY DRAFTSMY DRAFTS

    <javascript:;>
  * MY DASHBOARDDASHBOARD

    <javascript:;>
  * SWITCH USERFEEDS/USERS

    <javascript:;>
  * SETTINGS

    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/settings>
  * SIGN OUT

    <javascript:;>

Teacher Fired After Calling Black Students…
<https://www.buzzfeed.com/tasneemnashrulla/baltimore-teacher-fired-after-calling-black-students-punk-as>

Your Tattoo Preferences Will Tell Us Your Age And Favorite Fast Food
Restaurant <https://www.buzzfeed.com/spenceralthouse/tattoo-test>
Promoted
Sponsored
→
Asians Go Blonde <https://www.buzzfeed.com/evanghang/asians-go-blonde>
This Is What Disneyland's Opening Day Looked Like In 1955
<https://www.buzzfeed.com/gabrielsanchez/magical-pictures-of-disneylands-opening-day-in-1955>

Trump Plans Election "Victory Tour" Of States He Won
<https://www.buzzfeed.com/salvadorhernandez/trump-plans-election-victory-tour-in-red-states>

17 Dogs Who Are Carefully Bending Their Human’s…
<https://www.buzzfeed.com/katangus/i-am-technically-not-on-the-couch>
21 Tips That Will Help Get You Through The Rest Of NaNoWriMo
<https://www.buzzfeed.com/anjalipatel/tips-that-will-help-get-you-through-the-rest-of-nanowrimo>

Mannequin Challenge video
<https://www.buzzfeed.com/gadieldelorbe/mannequin-challenge>
Two Charged With Murder Of Partygoer Found Stabbed…
<https://www.buzzfeed.com/mikehayes/two-charged-with-murder-of-partygoer-found-stabbed-to-death>


<javascript:;>

Your Post Has Been Launched!
Fabulous! Don't forget to share with your friends on Twitter and Facebook.


  Can You Find A Place To Sleep Tonight?

See if you can make it through the night as one of the more than 6,500
homeless people living in San Francisco.

posted on Jun. 29, 2016, at 3:19 p.m.

Jessica Misener <https://www.buzzfeed.com/jessicamisener?language=en>
Jessica Misener <https://www.buzzfeed.com/jessicamisener?language=en>
BuzzFeed Staff
Ellen Cushing <https://www.buzzfeed.com/ellencushing?language=en>
Ellen Cushing <https://www.buzzfeed.com/ellencushing?language=en>
BuzzFeed News Reporter
//

<javascript:;>
//

<javascript:;>
//

<javascript:;>
//Tweet

<javascript:;>
//Tumblr

<javascript:;>
//Stumble

<javascript:;>
//

<javascript:;>
//

<javascript:;>
//

<javascript:;>
Bookmark it

<javascript:;>	

Between the thousands of San Franciscans without a place to live and the
dozens of shelters meant to provide them housing lies a massive,
many-armed social-services organism bound by complex rules and layers of
bureaucracy. One wrong turn or a small procedural mistake can mean the
difference between a warm bed for the night and sleeping on the street.

This Choose Your Own Adventure simulation is intended to replicate what
happens after a person — in this case, a domestic violence survivor and
mother of two — first loses their home.

The scenarios laid out here are personalized to a fictional (though
all-too-common) situation, but they are based on BuzzFeed News reporting
into every step of the city’s emergency-shelter system. If you were to
end up homeless in San Francisco tonight, chances are good your
experience would look a lot like the simulation below.

ID: 9071598

<javascript:;>

<javascript:;>

<javascript:;>

<javascript:;> <javascript:;>
<javascript:;>

*View this image ›*
<https://img.buzzfeed.com/buzzfeed-static/static/2016-06/29/17/asset/buzzfeed-prod-fastlane03/sub-buzz-20874-1467234661-6.jpg>

Josh Edelson / AFP / Getty
ID: 9073249
(staticImage:"https://img.buzzfeed.com/buzzfeed-static/static/2016-06/29/17/enhanced/buzzfeed-prod-fastlane01/game-pic-27079-1467234755-1.png","Thinkstock")
You're a mom of two living in San Francisco. Your partner supports your
family financially, and you stay home with your children. Even though he
works long hours, you still qualify as a low-income family. One
afternoon, you have an altercation with your partner that turns
physical. You no longer feel safe staying in your residence. You quickly
gather your things and your children and lock the door behind you with
$20 in your pocket. You have a cousin in Sacramento, but your younger
child just started kindergarten locally. Do you want to leave the Bay
Area, or stay? [[Leave Bay Area]] [[Stay in the Bay Area]]
(staticImage:"https://img.buzzfeed.com/buzzfeed-static/static/2016-06/29/17/enhanced/buzzfeed-prod-fastlane03/game-pic-20917-1467234752-4.png","Flickr")
Most of your family either lives on the other side of the country or
isn't stable enough to have a permanent residence themselves. Your
cousin in Sacramento says she'll let you and your children stay, but
just for one night. What do you do? [[Decide to take her up on it and
figure out a long-term plan later.]] [[Look for another option, because
one night isn't
enough.]](staticImage:"https://img.buzzfeed.com/buzzfeed-static/static/2016-06/29/17/enhanced/buzzfeed-prod-fastlane03/game-pic-20866-1467234757-11.png","Flickr")
You go to the library to use a computer and look up options online. The
city website gives you a number for an emergency family shelter hotline.
You call that number. [[It's busy.]]Just as soon as you set up your
tent, a fight breaks out right next to you and threatens to involve the
whole camp. Your younger kid is scared of the noises, and both are
complaining about being cold. You have to find another option. [[Set up
camp somewhere else|Borrow a tent and decide to sleep on the street
until you figure it out.]] [[Look for shelter options|Look for a shelter
that will let you stay]]Your family is sleeping as soundly as they can
on the hard pavement. That night, police officers come and clear out the
tent city, forcing you to pack up and find another option. [[Set up camp
somewhere else|Borrow a tent and decide to sleep on the street until you
figure it out.]] [[Look for shelter options|Look for a shelter that will
let you stay]]You sell your nicest pair of earrings for $40, which can
get you and your kids to Sacramento. You stay with your cousin for the
night. It's not permanent, but it's nice to have a safe place to stay.
(theEnd:)You have to stay put now. [[Stay in the Bay
Area]](staticImage:"https://img.buzzfeed.com/buzzfeed-static/static/2016-06/29/17/enhanced/buzzfeed-prod-fastlane03/game-pic-20919-1467234750-1.png","Flickr")
The bus is your only affordable option. [[Buy a bus ticket out of town
to stay with family]] [[Stay in the Bay Area]] (googleTrack:"Start
Adventure","")(staticImage:"https://img.buzzfeed.com/buzzfeed-static/static/2016-06/29/17/enhanced/buzzfeed-prod-fastlane03/game-pic-20917-1467234752-4.png","Flickr")
You're going to stay in the Bay Area. What do you do now? [[Look for a
shelter that will let you stay]] [[Borrow a tent and decide to sleep on
the street until you figure it out.]] (googleTrack:"Start
Adventure","")(staticImage:"https://img.buzzfeed.com/buzzfeed-static/static/2016-06/29/17/enhanced/buzzfeed-prod-fastlane03/game-pic-20848-1467234762-13.png","Flickr")
You borrow a large tent from a neighbor. You decide you want to camp
around other people so you're less vulnerable to the outside world.
Where do you and your family camp? [[On Division Street under 101]]
[[Downtown in the Tenderloin]]To qualify for a ticket through the
program, you must: -Be sober on the ride. -Be medically stable enough to
take the trip. -Have an adequate personal hygiene level. -Have family or
friends at the destination that Homeward Bound can verify are willing
and able to provide you a place to stay and ongoing support. Staff call
your cousin, who reiterates that she can't put your family up for more
than one night. While staff are sympathetic, they can't provide you a
ticket. [[See your shelter options|Look for a shelter that will let you
stay]]The emergency shelter is at capacity. The woman at the front desk
is very nice, but can't offer your family room to stay. By now, you and
your kids are cold and tired. What do you do? [[Give up and sleep on the
street.]] [[Choose another shelter|Shelters]]You walk up the hill to the
Fillmore district, only to realize that you misread the website. This is
only a winter shelter, which means it won't be open for two more months.
At this point, it's dark out and your kids are tired. You could just try
to find a quiet place to sleep on the street. [[Give up and sleep on the
street.]] [[Choose a new shelter|Shelters]]Unfortunately, you must line
up here by 7 a.m. to apply for a 90-day bed. You're tired and cold, and
your kids are hungry. You consider just finding a place to sleep on the
sidewalk. [[Give up and sleep on the street.]] [[Choose a new
shelter|Shelters]]Good news! This shelter has three beds available. It's
not a permanent solution to your problem, but your family has a warm
place to stay for tonight. (theEnd:)You call the crisis line and find
that they have just enough room for your family. Not only will they
provide beds, but this shelter will help you with legal advice, career
placement, food and clothing, safety planning and housing assistance. It
isn't a permanent solution, but you have a safe place for your family to
sleep and help getting you back on your feet. (theEnd:)You find out
there are beds available, but no showers. One of your children had a
bathroom accident, and you need to be able to bathe him. By now, you're
tired and your kids are crying. What do you do? [[Stay anyway.]]
[[Choose another shelter|Shelters]]You only have $20 cash and you need
$40 for bus fare. How do you get the money? [[Sell your jewelry at a
pawn shop for cash.]] [[Use the city's Homeward Bound program to try to
get a free ticket.]]You call another number. The social worker tells you
you're too late for the morning bed reservation and refers you to
another shelter. You call that shelter, and the attendant tells you that
you need to call between noon and 2 p.m. It's 4:00 p.m. now. But, he
says, you can physically walk there and stand in line to try to get a
spot. What do you do? [[Walk there and wait in line]] [[Try to find a
different shelter|Shelters]]You and your children walk the three miles
to the shelter and wait in line for an hour. Ultimately, the shelter is
full and can't take you. [[Go back to the library and Google around for
other shelters.|Shelters]]You do some research, and your shelter choices
are: [[A women's shelter in Soma]] [[A Tenderloin emergency family
shelter]] [[A church in the Fillmore]] [[A shelter in Bayview]] [[A
crisis shelter downtown]] [[An emergency shelter in the Mission]]You're
scared for your children's safety, but this is the only option for now.
You find a corner of Mission Street in Soma where other people are
sleeping, and a kind stranger lends you some blankets. You settle in for
the night, wondering what you are going to do to find a more stable
place to stay tomorrow. (theEnd:)It's not ideal, but you have to choose
beds for your family over hygiene. You try to get some sleep, dreading
the fact that you'll have to start the whole process over tomorrow.
(theEnd:)What do you do? [[Try to find another number]] [[Google some
shelters and walk your family there|Shelters]]

Thinkstock <javascript:>


You're a mom of two living in San Francisco. Your partner supports your
family financially, and you stay home with your children. Even though he
works long hours, you still qualify as a low-income family.

One afternoon, you have an altercation with your partner that turns
physical. You no longer feel safe staying in your residence. You quickly
gather your things and your children and lock the door behind you with
$20 in your pocket.

You have a cousin in Sacramento, but your younger child just started
kindergarten locally. Do you want to leave the Bay Area, or stay?

Leave Bay Area
Stay in the Bay Area

*View this embed ›*
<https://embed.contagiousmedia.com/embed/sub/item-o9jxlv-7bmf?sb=9072202&cb=1479432279&rds=>
ID: 9072202
ID: 9073657

*Check out more articles on BuzzFeed.com!* <https://www.buzzfeed.com/>
Deputy Editorial Director, BuzzFeed San Francisco
Contact Jessica Misener at jessica.misener@buzzfeed.com
<mailto:jessica.misener@buzzfeed.com>.
Ellen Cushing is an articles editor for BuzzFeed News' tech section and
is based in San Francisco.
Contact Ellen Cushing at ellen.cushing@buzzfeed.com
<mailto:jessica.misener@buzzfeed.com>.
//

<javascript:;>
//

<javascript:;>
//

<javascript:;>
//Tweet

<javascript:;>
//Tumblr

<javascript:;>
//Stumble

<javascript:;>
//

<javascript:;>
//

<javascript:;>
//

<javascript:;>
//

<javascript:;>
//

<javascript:;>
//Tweet

<javascript:;>
//

<javascript:;>
//

<javascript:;>
//Tweet

<javascript:;>
//

<javascript:;>
//

<javascript:;>
//

<javascript:;>
More ▾

<javascript:;>
 
Rebuzz
//<javascript:;>
//Stumble <javascript:;>
//<javascript:;>
//<javascript:;>
//<javascript:;>

 
Facebook Conversations

  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/ishmaeldaro/trump-refugees-get-in-line>
    Next On News›
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/ishmaeldaro/trump-refugees-get-in-line>


          Canadians Have No Interest In Making Things Easy For...

    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/ishmaeldaro/trump-refugees-get-in-line>
  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/tasneemnashrulla/georgia-set-to-execute-man-for-killing-his-ex-girlfriend>

    Next On News›
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/tasneemnashrulla/georgia-set-to-execute-man-for-killing-his-ex-girlfriend>



          Georgia Executes Man For Killing His Ex-Girlfriend

    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/tasneemnashrulla/georgia-set-to-execute-man-for-killing-his-ex-girlfriend>


I know, right? Will your friends agree?
Share this Link
Can You Find A Place To Sleep Tonight?
https://www.buzzfeed.com/jessicamisener/can-you... See if you can make
it through the night as one of the more than 6,500 homeless people
living in ...
*Your link was successfully shared!*


Promoted by
BuzzFeed Staff
Sponsored

Tagged:san francisco homelessness
<https://www.buzzfeed.com/tag/san_francisco_homelessness>, san francisco
<https://www.buzzfeed.com/tag/san_francisco>, san francisco
homelessness project
<https://www.buzzfeed.com/tag/san_francisco_homelessness_project>	

 
Facebook Conversations

<#> <#>
Promoted


Promoted by
BuzzFeed Staff
Sponsored

<https://www.buzzfeed.com/news>

In The News Today

  * President Obama blasted the spread of fake news on Facebook, saying
    it can hurt democratic freedoms.
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/maryanngeorgantopoulos/obama-says-fake-news-on-facebook-can-hurt-democratic-freedom?utm_term=.brlr8DV1X>
  * President-elect Trump has made four pledges on abortion. Here's how
    they could affect you.
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/emaoconnor/how-trumps-abortion-policies-could-affect-you>
  * The Anti-Defamation League has new demands for Twitter and Facebook
    after documenting a "significant uptick" in anti-Semitic harassment.
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/charliewarzel/the-anti-defamation-league-has-new-demands-for-twitter-and-f>
  * Someone found a cinnamon roll that looks like E.T. (but actually) 😋
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/juliareinstein/et-cinnamon-roll>

Download the BuzzFeed News app <http://bit.ly/1KWj2PP>
<https://www.buzzfeed.com/news>
<https://www.buzzfeed.com/mollyhensleyclancy/preparing-for-the-end-of-obamacare>

Preparing For The End Of Obamacare

<https://www.buzzfeed.com/mollyhensleyclancy/preparing-for-the-end-of-obamacare>


by Molly Hensley-Clancy <https://www.buzzfeed.com/mollyhensleyclancy>


        Connect With USNews

Like Us On Facebook <http://www.facebook.com/BuzzFeedNews> Follow Us On
Twitter <http://www.twitter.com/buzzfeednews>


        News moves fast. Keep up with
        the BuzzFeed News daily email.


      More News

  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/salvadorhernandez/man-accused-of-smashing-trumps-hollywood-star-charged-with-f>



        Man Accused Of Smashing Trump’s Hollywood Star Charged With
        Felony
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/salvadorhernandez/man-accused-of-smashing-trumps-hollywood-star-charged-with-f>

  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/claudiakoerner/cincinnati-zoos-fence-between-visitors-and-harambe-didnt-mee>



        Cincinnati Zoo’s Fence Between Visitors And Harambe Didn’t Meet
        Standards
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/claudiakoerner/cincinnati-zoos-fence-between-visitors-and-harambe-didnt-mee>

  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/azeenghorayshi/mom-sues-her-trans-teen-for-getting-hormone-therapy>



        Mom Sues Her Trans Teen For Getting Hormone Therapy
        <https://www.buzzfeed.com/azeenghorayshi/mom-sues-her-trans-teen-for-getting-hormone-therapy>


  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/salvadorhernandez/trump-plans-election-victory-tour-in-red-states>



        Trump Plans Election “Victory Tour” Of States He Won
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/salvadorhernandez/trump-plans-election-victory-tour-in-red-states>

  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/alexkantrowitz/most-retweeted-tweets-of-the-election>



        These Are The Most Retweeted Tweets Of The Election
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/alexkantrowitz/most-retweeted-tweets-of-the-election>

  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/adriancarrasquillo/white-house-we-dont-have-the-authority-to-pardon-dreamers>



        White House: We Don’t Have The Authority To Pardon DREAMers
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/adriancarrasquillo/white-house-we-dont-have-the-authority-to-pardon-dreamers>

  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/venessawong/mcdonalds-will-start-offering-table-service>



        McDonald’s Will Start Offering Table Service
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/venessawong/mcdonalds-will-start-offering-table-service>

  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/darrensands/national-black-faith-leaders-call-on-trump-to-rescind-bannon>



        National Black Faith Leaders Call On Trump To Rescind Bannon
        Appointment
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/darrensands/national-black-faith-leaders-call-on-trump-to-rescind-bannon>

  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/nidhisubbaraman/the-tribe-thats-suing-the-us-government-to-keep-its-promises>



        The Tribe That’s Suing The US Government To Keep Its Promises
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/nidhisubbaraman/the-tribe-thats-suing-the-us-government-to-keep-its-promises>

  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/tonydiver/trump-will-work-very-closely-with-theresa-may-says-former-ca>



        Trump Will Work “Very Closely” With Theresa May, Says Former
        Campaign Manager
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/tonydiver/trump-will-work-very-closely-with-theresa-may-says-former-ca>

More News<https://www.buzzfeed.com/news>


      Now Buzzing

  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/tasneemnashrulla/baltimore-teacher-fired-after-calling-black-students-punk-as>



        Teacher Fired After Calling Black Students “Punk-Ass N*****s”
        Who Were “Gonna Get Shot”
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/tasneemnashrulla/baltimore-teacher-fired-after-calling-black-students-punk-as>

  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/tamerragriffin/arizona-police-officer-filmed-punching-woman-in-the-face-dur>



        Arizona Police Officer Filmed Punching Woman In The Face During
        Arrest
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/tamerragriffin/arizona-police-officer-filmed-punching-woman-in-the-face-dur>

  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/mjs538/not-usually-a-sign-guy-but-geez>


        28 Signs From Trump Protests That Will Make You Laugh Harder
        Than You Should
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/mjs538/not-usually-a-sign-guy-but-geez>

  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/bradesposito/josh-goudswaard>


        Man Who Went Missing In Asia Found Casually Playing Bongos In
    Thailand <https://www.buzzfeed.com/bradesposito/josh-goudswaard>

  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/juliareinstein/et-cinnamon-roll>


        Anyway, Here’s A Cinnamon Roll That Looks Like E.T.
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/juliareinstein/et-cinnamon-roll>

  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/gabrielsanchez/magical-pictures-of-disneylands-opening-day-in-1955>



        26 Magical Pictures Of Disneyland's Opening Day In 1955
        <https://www.buzzfeed.com/gabrielsanchez/magical-pictures-of-disneylands-opening-day-in-1955>


  *
    Promoted
    Sponsored


  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/natalyalobanova/how-unpopular-are-your-body-hair-opinions>



        How Normal Are Your Body Hair Opinions?
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/natalyalobanova/how-unpopular-are-your-body-hair-opinions>

  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/tahliapritchard/scoot-over-rose-goddamn-it>	


        19 Funny Tweets That Perfectly Sum Up Movie Plots In Five Words
        <https://www.buzzfeed.com/tahliapritchard/scoot-over-rose-goddamn-it>


  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/hattiesoykan/what-type-of-princess-are-you>


        This Quiz Will Determine What Type Of Princess You Would Be
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/hattiesoykan/what-type-of-princess-are-you>

  *
    Promoted
    Sponsored


  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/adriancarrasquillo/white-house-we-dont-have-the-authority-to-pardon-dreamers>



        White House: We Don’t Have The Authority To Pardon DREAMers
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/adriancarrasquillo/white-house-we-dont-have-the-authority-to-pardon-dreamers>

  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/scottloitsch/tinga-de-pollo-from-guisados-made-with-lucky-peach>



        Tinga De Pollo From Guisados (Made With Lucky Peach)
        <https://www.buzzfeed.com/scottloitsch/tinga-de-pollo-from-guisados-made-with-lucky-peach>


  *
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/remeepatel/how-bad-are-your-christmas-opinions>



        How Unpopular Are Your Christmas Opinions?
        <https://www.buzzfeed.com/remeepatel/how-bad-are-your-christmas-opinions>


More Buzz<https://www.buzzfeed.com/>

  * advertise <https://www.buzzfeed.com/advertise>
  * jobs <https://www.buzzfeed.com/about/jobs>
  * mobile <https://www.buzzfeed.com/tools/mobile-ios>
  * newsletter <https://www.buzzfeed.com/tools/email>
  * Shop <http://shop.buzzfeed.com/>
  * US Edition <javascript:;>
      o US Edition

      o UK Edition

      o Australia

      o Brasil

      o Canada

      o Deutschland

      o España

      o Español

      o France

      o India

      o Japan

      o México

  * about <https://www.buzzfeed.com/about>
  * press <https://www.buzzfeed.com/press>
  * RSS <https://www.buzzfeed.com/tools/more>
  * privacy <https://www.buzzfeed.com/about/privacy>
  * user terms <https://www.buzzfeed.com/about/useragreement>
  * ad Choices <https://www.buzzfeed.com/about/privacy#adchoices>
  * Help <https://www.buzzfeed.com/help/faq>
  * Contact <https://www.buzzfeed.com/about/contact>

  *

    © 2016 BuzzFeed, Inc
  * <http://wearemadeinny.com/>

Are you sure you want to remove this item? You can\'t restore it with
"Cancel" button!
No
YesOkay
Please wait...
Cancel
This Post Is Locked

has been editing this post since **.

Unlock and edit anyway
This Post Is locked

have been jointly editing this post since **.

Unlock only in a case of an emergency.
Unlock and edit anyway
Uh Oh!

took your lock at **.

Refresh the post
Super Uh Oh!

Something's wrong, a mini-history of this post:

Reload the page
View Draft
What type of post are you making?
Article
List
Breaking
Crop Image ×

<javascript:;>
Upload an Image Crop Image Are These Thumbnails Okay? ×

<javascript:;>
Choose a new image Save Save Thumbnails Preview Thumbnails
I know, right? Will your friends agree?
Close

<javascript:;>
Cancel

<span class="pin_img"> <img style="#{img_style}" src="#{img_src}"
width="#{img_width}px" height="#{img_height}px"> </span> <cite> <span
class="pin_mask"></span> <span>#{img_n_width}x#{img_n_height}</span>
</cite> <img
src="data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAAAAACH5BAEKAAEALAAAAAABAAEAAAICTAEAOw=="
onload="sharing.buttons.pinterest({ replace: this, type: 'pin_image',
media: '#{media}', description: '#{desc}' });" />
Email this to a friend

Hey, I saw this on BuzzFeed and thought of you.
Please enter the CAT-CHA
Catcha question...

Please select the newsletters you'd like to receive.

Your email has been sent!

Thanks for sharing! You should sign up for our Usnews newsletter!
7x per week
No thanks

Oops! We had a problem sending your message. Please try again later.

Great! You'll get your first email soon.
Share This Link


    Report an Issue

*Drag to highlight* one or more parts of the screen.

Cancel
Next
What should we know about this issue?

Back
Next


    Thanks!

We got your feedback, and we'll follow up with you at **

Done

Sadly, an error occured while sending your feedback. Please contact
bugs@buzzfeed.com to let us know.

OK

<javascript:;>
