<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/> Beyond Homelessness

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>
//
<https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fshelters%2F&text=Can%20the%20shelter%20system%20be%20successful%3F&hashtags=SFHomelessProject>
// <#>
//
<mailto:?subject=Can%20the%20shelter%20system%20be%20successful%3F&body=SF%20Homeless%20Project%3A%20Would%20converting%20San%20Francisco%27s%20shelter%20system%20to%20a%20more%20accessible%2C%20service-oriented%20model%20get%20more%20people%20off%20the%20streets%3F%0A%0Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fshelters%2F>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
Beyond Homelessness <http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>
//
<https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fshelters%2F&text=Can%20the%20shelter%20system%20be%20successful%3F&hashtags=SFHomelessProject>
// <#>
//
<mailto:?subject=Can%20the%20shelter%20system%20be%20successful%3F&body=SF%20Homeless%20Project%3A%20Would%20converting%20San%20Francisco%27s%20shelter%20system%20to%20a%20more%20accessible%2C%20service-oriented%20model%20get%20more%20people%20off%20the%20streets%3F%0A%0Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fshelters%2F>


  A better model, a better result?

Would expanding San Francisco’s shelter system and converting it to a
more accessible, service-oriented model get more homeless people off the
streets?

By Heather Knight

June 29, 2016

June 1, 2016 Zoila Soriano, 71, sits on her bed at the Next Door
homeless shelter. Soriano, who has lived in the Bay Area 51 years,
including 27 years in Daly City, says she lost everything when her
husband died and she sold her house to pay for her son’s burial.Photo:
Leah Millis, The Chronicle

A group of men sat slumped in plastic chairs watching television and
awaiting their dinner of chili, carrots and rice. Later, they would be
among a group of 30 to sleep crammed together on bunk beds or mats on
the floor. At 8 a.m., they’d have to leave for another day on the street.

About this project:

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>

The San Francisco Chronicle has joined with more than 70 other news
organizations to focus attention on the seemingly intractable problem of
homelessness in our region.

Read the letter to the city
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/letter-to-the-city/>.

Other stories and multimedia elements of this project can be found at
sfchronicle.com/homeless <http://sfchronicle.com/homeless>.

It was in front of that television that the men at Hospitality House, a
homeless shelter in the Tenderloin, learned of a different sort of
facility for people like themselves. The 15-month-old Navigation Center
in San Francisco’s Mission District has been the talk of City Hall and
nightly newscasts, leaving the men at Hospitality House to wonder why
none of its relaxed rules and assistance in finding permanent housing
had come their way.

“I’ve heard they pick up people off the streets, but they don’t think of
the people already in the shelters,” said Ramon Thibodeaux, 44. “That’s
what hurts the most. We’re homeless, too. It’s just that we’re in here.”

Shelters, run by nonprofits but paid for by the city, have become a
forgotten footnote to San Francisco’s homeless crisis over the past
decade — their beds cut by a third to save money and their hours and
staffing slashed. Getting a bed in one of them is a time-consuming
bureaucratic process that requires joining a waiting list. And they have
many rules, including prohibitions on men and women sleeping together,
and bringing along pets and belongings, that discourage many from using
them.

March 7, 2016 Jonathan Payne organizes his area while Marin Santi
relaxes on her bed in their sleeping quarters at the Navigation Center
in San Francisco’s Mission District. The innovative facility offers the
homeless an array of supportive services including shelter and help
finding permanent housing.Photo: Gabrielle Lurie, Special to The Chronicle

But what if the city’s traditional homeless shelters, with their rigid
rules, were run along the lines of the far-more-welcoming Navigation
Center, which has case managers on hand to help shelter residents get
their lives together? What if the city added hundreds more beds to
accommodate those on its waiting list for shelters rather than making
them pass the time on the streets until their names come up? What if the
city considered shelters part of the answer to homelessness and not just
way stations?

It is possible to make changes to shelters so men like Thibodeaux, stuck
cycling endlessly in and out of them, could instead get help finding
permanent housing quickly, say many city officials and those who operate
the shelters.

Rahul Mukherjee/The Chronicle
About the data: Based on data collected from the first six months of
operation.
Source: San Francisco Budget and Legislative Analyst's Office
Rahul Mukherjee/The Chronicle
About the data: Based on data collected from the first six months of
operation.
Source: San Francisco Budget and Legislative Analyst's Office

It would mean turning the shelters for single adults — at 1,203 beds,
they’re the vast majority of the system, which also has some separate
facilities for families and youth — into places more like the Navigation
Center, with case managers to offer intensive help, all-day staffing
allowing for 24-hour access, and relaxed rules to allow partners to
sleep together alongside their pets and belongings. The shelter system
costs the city about $16 million a year. Doubling that amount could pay
for such an overhaul, according to a city controller’s analysis.

In mid-June, the Board of Supervisors voted to create six more
Navigation Centers over the next two years, including a second center
that opened this week at Market and 12th streets.

The five additional centers would accommodate about 400 additional
homeless people, a considerable proportion of the shelter waiting list,
which fluctuates from 600 to 900 people. Building five new centers would
cost around $10 million to $20 million — although the board’s action
left open the possibility that converting some existing shelters into
Navigation Centers would be acceptable. Operating them would cost upward
of $20 million to $30 million a year.

If those centers were added to the two existing centers, which have 168
beds, and the city upgraded is traditional shelters, a combined 1,771
homeless people would have more than just a place to sleep at night.
They would have a place to be during the day and get help figuring out
how to live a life off the streets.

Dec. 18, 2006 Teresa Hernandez wraps herself in a blanket at the corner
of Golden Gate Avenue and Jones Street in San Francisco on a cold day.
Hernandez was living on the streets at the time and feared spending
another night outdoors in freezing weather. Photo: Brant Ward, The Chronicle

That number is far from the city’s entire homeless population —
estimates for several years have varied from 6,400 people to more than
twice that. The city’s most recent official biennial count, conducted
during one night in January 2015, put the total at 6,686 people. Getting
1,771 people into improved shelters with case managers to help them move
out of the shelters more quickly would unclog the current shelter
system, freeing up space for others still on the street.

“It would really go a long way,” Sam Dodge, deputy director of Mayor Ed
Lee’s new Department of Homelessness and Supportive Housing, said of
improving the current shelters and adding 400 Navigation Center beds.
“You start to make things efficient and you start to expand access and
coordinate everything, and you start to make some progress.”

Broad support

The idea of retooling San Francisco’s homeless shelter system is gaining
traction with everyone from the destitute people who live in the
shelters to the people who operate them to President Obama’s homeless
policy adviser.

“For too long, we have fallen into the mistake of thinking it’s either
emergency shelter or permanent housing,” said Matthew Doherty, executive
director of the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness. “We need to
look at the role emergency shelters can play in helping people find
permanent housing. It’s not one or the other.”

May 16, 2015 Monique Webb smokes outside the Civic Center Hotel, the
site of San Francisco’s second Navigation Center to aid the homeless.
The facility at 12th and Market streets will provide an array of
supportive services including shelter and help finding permanent
housing.Photo: Gabrielle Lurie, Special to The Chronicle

Hospitality House opened in 1967 as a Tenderloin neighborhood center. In
1982, it was converted into an overnight shelter after President Ronald
Reagan cut funding for public housing and low-income housing vouchers,
increasing the number of homeless people dramatically.

More shelters opened over the next decade, but in time they became
afterthoughts in the city’s homelessness efforts. In 2004, Mayor Gavin
Newsom promised to close the shelters as part of a 10-year plan to end
homelessness. He said a shift to permanent, supportive housing would
eliminate the need for them. “Shelters solve sleep. Housing solves
homelessness,” he repeated throughout his tenure.

But rather than getting to the point where shelters could be closed, the
city cut the number of beds by a third to save money. In 2004, there
were 1,910 beds for single adults — now, there are 1,203. Another 100 or
so beds are available for families. While there are a few dozen vacant
shelter beds each night, often because people didn’t show up for a space
they were granted, Dodge said earlier this year, “There’s a tremendous
demand for shelter.”

The recession that hit in 2008 prompted more cuts, so the city closed
shelters during the day. Since 2004, the city has also closed half of
its daytime homeless drop-in centers, forcing indigent people outside,
where they are more visible to residents and tourists.

March 22, 2016 Pamala Deffee with Solutions SF addresses a tenant as she
works the front desk at the Civic Center Hotel in San Francisco. Photo:
Leah Millis, The Chronicle

Last year, Lee’s administration took a different approach. It opened the
first Navigation Center in March 2015, near the 16th Street BART Station
in the Mission District — and its popularity led quickly to plans for
the second center that just opened at the Civic Center Hotel.

The centers are operated differently than typical homeless shelters. At
a Navigation Center, homeless partners can sleep beside each other and
have space for pets to sleep on the floor next to them. People can bring
all of their belongings for safe storage.

Shelters don’t allow that. Instead, homeless people in traditional
shelters can store their belongings at a facility on Jones Street, which
is accessible only from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday and
requires a state identification card, which many homeless people don’t have.

At the Mission Navigation Center, a courtyard with shaded picnic tables
serves as an all-day gathering spot and animal play area. Homeless
people can come and go as they please and eat whenever they want. Most
shelters are closed during the day, have strict nightly curfews with no
in-and-out privileges and stick to set meal times.

May 16, 2015 A man leaves the Civic Center Hotel, which is now San
Francisco’s second Navigation Center to aid the homeless. Photo:
Gabrielle Lurie, Special to The Chronicle

Many homeless people see shelter rules as so rigid, they won’t sleep in
them. But they are eager to enter a Navigation Center.

Tony Roberson, 63, who’s been homeless for two years and has stayed in
various shelters including Hospitality House, said those who score beds
at a Navigation Center are lucky.

“The resources they’re putting into that one shelter is crazy when they
have all these other shelters that need help,” he said. “It would be
nice if 10 percent, 15 percent of what they send to the Navigation
Center could be sent here to Hospitality House. It would make a big
difference.”

Services are the biggest difference between the two models. Case
managers at a Navigation Center help homeless people “navigate” into
something else. They’ll work intensely with center residents to make
medical appointments, get proper identification cards, qualify for
government benefits, find permanent housing or secure a bus ticket home.
And until there’s a solution beyond the center, residents are allowed to
stay indefinitely.

Some shelters have a few social workers or nurses, but the ratio to
residents is much higher at a Navigation Center. And the city’s scant
permanent housing spaces are given first to Navigation Center residents,
meaning there’s none left for those in shelters.

/Rahul Mukherjee • rmukherjee@sfchronicle.com
<mailto:rmukherjee@sfchronicle.com> • @ruhlmuk
<https://twitter.com/ruhlmuk>/
/Source: San Francisco Budget and Legislative Analyst's Office/

As of mid-June, 545 clients had been housed at the Mission Navigation
Center since March 2015. Of those, 216 received a free bus ticket
through the city’s Homeward Bound program, which pays to send people to
their home cities or states as long as a willing relative or friend is
waiting for them. An additional 206 moved into housing, 13 moved into
the Civic Center Hotel, and the rest were still living there, had left
or had been asked to leave, or went into other programs.

Dramatic differences

Perhaps nobody knows the inequities of Navigation Centers versus
traditional shelters better than Ken Reggio, director of Episcopal
Community Services, which manages the Mission District center as well as
two traditional shelters, Sanctuary and Next Door.

At the 26-year-old Next Door Shelter, there are just two case managers
to work with those who stay in its 334 beds. At the Mission Navigation
Center, the ratio is 1 to 12.

June 1, 2016 Next Door homeless shelter staff member Tiffany Tate cleans
up in the cafeteria after breakfast at the San Francisco facility.Photo:
Leah Millis, The Chronicle

Entering Next Door requires walking through a metal detector manned by a
security guard.

“We always have weapons problems,” Reggio explained. When one homeless
man appeared to pick a fight with another in the elevator, Reggio
shrugged. “I’d be angry too if I was sleeping only 22 inches away from
someone else and surrounded by 300 people,” he said.

In the lobby is a wall decorated with photographs of former shelter
residents holding houseplants — the gift they receive when they leave.
Compare that to the basket of sheets and towels, hot plate and microwave
given to those who leave the Navigation Center, Reggio said.

June 17, 2016 A 360 degree image of the library at the basement of
Episcopal Community Services’ Next Door shelter.Photo: Leah Millis, The
Chronicle

There are other ways homeless people could benefit if the city retools
the shelter system and increases the number of Navigation Centers.

A homeless person can gain access to a Navigation Center in a couple of
hours. The city’s Homeless Outreach Team goes out knowing the daily
number of beds available, finds people in tents to fill them and drives
them, their pets and belongings there in a van. The center’s staff gives
them a tour and teams them with a case manager.

Getting a shelter bed takes far more time. The homeless person must
visit one of four reservation sites, complete a profile, get tested for
tuberculosis and call 311 to get on the waiting list. Once the person’s
name comes up, he or she gets a bed for 90 days. It’s possible to extend
a stay by 30 to 60 days, but then the person must begin the process
again. Emergency shelter beds can be obtained for a night, but only by
visiting the same reservation sites and only if there are any available
that day.

In a way, the system gives homeless people the incentive to stay on the
street in hopes of being selected for a Navigation Center rather than
bothering with the complexities of securing a shelter bed.

More help available

Thibodeaux, who was a Hospitality House resident for four months before
relocating to the Sanctuary shelter, learned how different a Navigation
Center was while watching TV one night.

“They help people get housing — we even saw it on the news,” he said. “A
couple of people who were homeless went to the Navigation Center, and
they got housing. I saw it on their faces, the relief.”

June 3, 2016 A client feeds his dog, R.J., while making himself a
sandwich at the Navigation Center for the homeless in the Mission
District, where clients are allowed to live with their pets and partners
and receive an array of support services. Photo: Leah Millis, The Chronicle

Thibodeaux wound up in city shelters after losing his job as a janitor,
losing his South of Market studio apartment and falling into depression.
When the shelters close during the day, he works on his resume in
Hospitality House’s adjacent employment center.

He’d get more help finding a job and securing housing at a Navigation
Center, but scoring one of its coveted beds would mean setting his
progress in reverse. He’d have to give up his shelter bed, live on the
streets and become part of a tent encampment. Those who have been on the
streets for six months without accessing a traditional shelter bed are
given priority for a Navigation Center.

Jackie Jenks, executive director of Hospitality House, is co-chair of
the city’s Homeless Emergency Service Providers Association, a group
that has been calling for shelters to be given resources comparable to
those at Navigation Centers. Lee responded this month by putting
$900,000 into his proposed budget for a pilot program that would do just
that, easing the association’s fears that shelters would be overlooked
in favor of new Navigation Centers.

“We believe everyone should have housing, but as long as people have to
stay in shelters they should have all the same services given now at
Navigation Centers to help them exit into housing when it becomes
available,” Jenks said.

March 9, 2016 Dr. Justin V. Morgan, a San Francisco Department of Public
Health physician, conducts a medical assessment of Pier 80 shelter
client John Armstead.Photo: Lea Suzuki, The Chronicle

Shelter operators have the city controller’s office on their side. In
December, it published a report on the first six months of the Mission
Navigation Center and recommended that “city leaders and service
providers explore policy changes that will help make traditional
shelters similarly welcoming for clients and foster a sense of working
together toward tangible goals.” An update to that report last month
reinforced that contention.

In a survey of Navigation Center clients, the controller’s office found
that the top three reasons they had resisted going to traditional
shelters were the crowded accommodations, curfews and the inability to
sleep with partners.

City officials are mostly on board with improving shelters, but have
taken little concrete action.

Why Navigation Centers clients avoid shelters
More than three out of four clients at the Mission District Navigation
Center said they did not spend a single night in a traditional San
Francisco shelter in the 12 months before being admitted, suggesting the
referral process is targeting the intended clients — those not generally
served by the existing shelter system.
Reason 	Description 	Number of mentions
People 	Too many people in general, as well as the "wrong types" of
people 	24
Restrictions 	Curfew, kicked out in the morning, rules and regulations 	23
Partners 	Can't shelter with partner, or partner does not want to be in
shelter 	19
Not connected 	Did not know about shelter or could not get into shelter 	16
Violence or safety concerns 	Experienced or heard of violence, afraid of
violence or assault 	14
Poor service 	Had poor experiences with shelter staff 	13
Stealing 	Experienced theft or afraid of theft 	12
Not interested 	"Prefer the streets" 	11
General environment 	"Don't like shelters" 	10
Pets 	Pets not allowed in shelters 	7
Cleanliness 	Bed bugs, hygiene of others, afraid of illness 	7
Other 	Using drugs, PTSD, homophobia 	4

/Benjamin Din • bdin@sfchronicle.com <mailto:benjamin.din@gmail.com> •
@benjamindin <https://twitter.com/benjamindin>/
/Rahul Mukherjee • rmukherjee@sfchronicle.com
<mailto:rmukherjee@sfchronicle.com> • @ruhlmuk
<https://twitter.com/ruhlmuk>/
/Source: San Francisco Budget and Legislative Analyst's Office/

Jeff Kositsky, head of the mayor’s new Department on Homelessness and
Supportive Housing, said he hasn’t been on the job long enough to know
how many additional shelter beds should exist, but endorses making
shelters more welcoming places.

“I support the idea that shelters should be easy to access and that
there are services available that can help people exit homelessness,” he
said. “I think that’s a great idea, but it needs to be part of a bigger
system.”

He said he wants to create a navigation system that encompasses the
city’s entire response to homelessness and makes it easier for
individual homeless people to receive targeted services and get off the
streets quickly.

Supervisor Mark Farrell, the chairman of the board’s budget committee,
said changing traditional shelters would “make a huge difference.”

“Most people think of our shelter system as an emergency place for
people to get off the streets for the night, but in reality we have
people staying in our shelters for two years at a time,” he said. “Our
goal should not only be housing them, but getting them on their own two
feet.”

Financial disparity

Cost is a major consideration. The controller’s report found that
operating a Navigation Center bed for one night costs $69, compared with
the average of $36 for a traditional shelter bed.

The adult shelters — there are separate, smaller facilities for families
and those ages 16-24 — receive $13.8 million a year from the city, but
cost $16 million to run. Private funding makes up the difference. To
operate those shelters as Navigation Centers would mean roughly doubling
the city’s annual outlay to $32 million.

June 10, 2016 Enrique Chunpitaz, 74, drinks milk and eats a pastry for
lunch while sitting on his bed at the Navigation Center homeless shelter
in the Mission District.Photo: Leah Millis, The Chronicle

Expanding the number of shelter beds to accommodate more homeless people
would be a bigger expense because it would mean building new facilities.
A May report from Harvey Rose, the Board of Supervisors’ budget and
legislative analyst, estimated that one-time costs of opening five new
Navigation Centers would range from $5 million to $15 million. Rose
estimated the annual operating costs of those centers at $20 million to
$32 million.

The first Navigation Center in the Mission opened thanks to an anonymous
$3 million donation from someone in the tech field. To pay for expanded
services, the mayor could ramp up efforts to raise more private money
from tech titans or other philanthropists.

Regular homeless operations are paid for out of the city’s general fund,
and passage of a potential sales tax in November to supplement that
money could help pay for running the improved shelters and staffing them
with case managers.

That all adds up. But it could be a strategic investment in a city with
a $9 billion annual budget and a growing number of residents beyond
frustrated with the proliferation of tent cities on their sidewalks.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Reporter

Heather Knight • hknight@sfchronicle.com
<mailto:hknight@sfchronicle.com> • @hknightsf
<https://twitter.com/hknightsf>

Contributing reporter

Kevin Fagan • kfagan@sfchronicle.com <mailto:kfagan@sfchronicle.com> •
@KevinChron <https://twitter.com/KevinChron>

Interactive producers

Lucio Villa • lvilla@sfchronicle.com <mailto:lvilla@sfchronicle.com> •
@luciovilla <https://twitter.com/luciovilla>
Benjamin Din • bdin@sfchronicle.com <mailto:bdin@sfchronicle.com> •
@benjamindin <https://twitter.com/benjamindin>
Emma O'Neill • eoneill@sfchronicle.com <mailto:eoneill@sfchronicle.com>
• @emmaruthoneill <https://twitter.com/emmaruthoneill>
------------------------------------------------------------------------


        Editorial: SF's homeless problem a civic disgrace

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/civic-disgrace>


        Solution starts with supportive housing

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/supportive-housing>


        The mentally ill: Streets' costliest residents

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/mental-health>


        Can law enforcement curb the crisis?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/encampments>


        A problem that looked the same 20 years ago

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/overview>


        How many people live on our streets?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/numbers>


        Portraits of life on SF's streets

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/faces-of-the-streets>


        How SF's last 5 mayors tackled homelessness

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/letters-from-the-mayors>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>


    The sign in service is not functioning right now.


    Please try again in a few minutes

If the issues continue, please contact our customer service at

Phone:

Email:


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in


Don't have a profile?


            Don't have a subscription?

Sign up Subscribe

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a profile using


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password
Send me email offers

Already have a profile? Sign In

By clicking "Next" or signing in you confirm that you accept our Terms
and Conditions <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and have read
and understood our Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in


          Hi,


          You are signed in

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>

Maintain your delivery address, payment details and place a vacation
hold in Subscriber Portal.

MANAGE SUBSCRIPTION

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/account/>

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>
SUBSCRIBE

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>
SIGN OUT

<javascript:void(0)>


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our
Terms of Service <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy
Policy <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign In

Keep me signed in
Show password Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Paid Subscription Access Only

You are now signed in but you must have a San Francisco Chronicle
subscription to access any content.

Already have a subscription?

ACTIVATE

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fshelters%2F>


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          About Me

DISPLAY NAMEDisplay names must begin with an alpha-numeric character.
They can not contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor
may they contain obscenities.

This display name is already in use. Please enter a different display name.

You must enter a display name.

Display names must begin with an alpha-numeric character. They can not
contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor may they
contain obscenities.

EMAIL ADDRESSChanging this email address will also change the email
address associated with your subscription

You must enter an email address.

GENDERThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

BIRTH YEARThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

* are required fields


          SF Chronicle Subscription

You can manage your delivery address, payment details, delete your
account and more subscription details in the subscriber portal.

Manage Subscription

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/account/>


            Get it on all your devices


    Unlimited digital access with every subscription

SFChronicle.com | App for iPhone and iPad
e-edition (daily print replica) | Exclusive member experiences and discounts

SUBSCRIBE NOW AND SAVE!

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/> I have a subscription

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fshelters%2F>


          Password

EDIT

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.


          Password

CANCEL

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.

CURRENT PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Current password is incorrect

Current password field is required

NEW PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain both
upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

New password field is required

CONFIRM PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Confirm password field is required

Show password


    Welcome, !

Your profile, subscription, linked accounts, and newsletter selections
are not viewable by other readers on our sites. Your profile can only be
seen by you. Any comments you post to articles on our sites can be seen
by all readers and moderators.


          Newsletter Preferences

You are subscribed to the following:

  * Top O’ the Bay

    The latest stories from across the San Francisco Bay Area

  * Notes & Errata

    Mark Morford's irreverent and highly satiric weekly column

  * Breaking News

    Be notified when when big stories break or critical warnings are
    issued for the Bay Area

  * Sports

    Coverage of all your Bay Area teams

  * Inside Scoop

    Insider knowledge for Bay Area foodies

  * New Flicks

    The latest movie reviews

  * Business & Technology

    The latest in business, finance, and tech news

  * 5 Things To Do

    Great events across the Bay Area selected just for you


          San Francisco Chronicle Newsletters

  * Chronicle Commuter

    A curated selection of stories just in time for your afternoon commute

  * Membership Updates

    The latest from our membership benefits program (subscribers only)

  * e-edition Reminder

    Reminder of your daily e-edition, a replica of the print newspaper
    (subscribers only)

  * Subscription Reminders

    Notices and reminders about your subscription (subscribers only)


          Email Notifications and Offers

  * Feature Updates

    Special features, new site sections and more from The Chronicle and
    SFGATE

  * Promotions & Sales

    Subscription offers from the San Francisco Chronicle and other
    special promotions

  * Surveys

    Surveys about your Chronicle print edition, websites and other
    digital products

  * Advertiser Special Offers

    Receive special offers sent by us on behalf of select advertisers
    and partners

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in Forgot Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

You must be a subscriber to access this content.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

Stay signed in
Forgot Your Password?


          Sign In

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Back to Sign In

Email address field is required.

Email address is incorrect.

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


          Link Profiles

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot Your Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Forgot Your Password?


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Link Profiles

Stay signed in

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Forgot Your Password?


          SIGN IN


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot Your Password?
Keep me signed in


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Sign In With Your Existing San Francisco Chronicle Account
Sign In
OR

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Keep me signed in
Forgot Your Password?

By signing in, you agree to our terms of use
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/>.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password?

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in
Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot password?

Create an account

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a sign-in for your subscription account


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password

Have a profile on SFGate or San Francisco Chronicle already?

Sign In

Contact Customer Service at 800-310-2455 or email us at
homedelivery@sfchronicle.com <mailto:homedelivery@sfchronicle.com>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in

