SF Homeless Project
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=logo-lo_c9c5f5ebb63f---6286c006a24b>
Follow
<https://twitter.com/bayareahomeless><https://facebook.com/sfhomelessproject>
Sign in / Sign up
<https://medium.com/m/signin?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fsfhomelessproject.com%2Fcan-a-minuscule-nonprofit-help-san-francisco-win-its-war-on-homelessness-c3693e51c83f%3Fsource%3D---------53--------->
Home <https://sfhomelessproject.com/>About
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/to-the-city-and-people-of-san-francisco-484764406408>How
you can help
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/help-guide/widget/index.html><https://sfhomelessproject.com/search>
Next story


        “I wanna do a graphic novel that’s gonna be turned into a
        movie.” James

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/i-wanna-do-a-graphic-novel-thats-gonna-be-turned-into-a-movie-james-e315ce3b9d5d?source=read_next_metabar----------41>
9

  * Share
  *
    9

  *
*

Go to the profile of San Francisco Magazine

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@sanfranmag?source=post_header_lockup>
San Francisco Magazine
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@sanfranmag?source=post_header_lockup>BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
The monthly magazine of the San Francisco Bay Area. 2015 National
Magazine Award winner.
Jun 29

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*/Left: /*/North Beach Citizens food pantry volunteers Wendy (left) and
Meeka. /*/Right: /*/NBC client Cynthia Jones at a community food pantry
earlier this year./


  Can a Minuscule Nonprofit Help San Francisco Win Its War on Homelessness?


    *Deconstructing the hyperlocal example of North Beach Citizens.*


        By Gary Kamiya • Photographs by Elisabeth Fall Photography

/Originally published at San Francisco magazine/
<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/story/can-minuscule-nonprofit-help-san-francisco-win-its-war-homelessness>

*Steven Daniels is not homeless.* But he was once. And the story of how
he went from a state of destitution to one of relative health and
stability offers a lesson that could help San Francisco someday solve
its 30-year homelessness crisis. Daniels is one of a multitude of
formerly homeless people who credit a five-employee, 15-year-old
storefront nonprofit called North Beach Citizens
<http://www.northbeachcitizens.org/> with changing — and maybe even
saving — their lives. In particular, Daniels acknowledges one woman,
North Beach Citizens director Kristie Fairchild, with being his personal
savior.

For 11 years, Daniels, a 55-year old Fresno native, slept under a
parking structure off Broadway, just a block away from the North Beach
Citizens office on Kearny Street, while hustling as a crack dealer in
the Tenderloin. A friend hoping to help Daniels took him to the
nonprofit. After Daniels started helping clean up the office and working
on the organization’s street beautification program, Fairchild made
appointments for him to get housing and assistance. “But I was a genuine
fuckup,” he says. “I was still hustling and I used to miss the
appointments. It really used to get Kristie perturbed. One time she
yelled at me, “What the fuck is wrong with you?” It brought a tear to my
eye. I thought, This lady is not giving up on you. She cares more about
you than you do about yourself.”

But Daniels still wasn’t ready. He got busted for selling crack and
ended up in jail. “Kristie still didn’t give up on me,” he says. “She
sent me Martin Luther King’s speeches when I was in jail. Then a Section
8 housing spot came up. I’d been on the list for eight years. She called
the court and said, ‘I don’t need him in jail.’ I wasn’t due to be
released for six and a half weeks, but they let me out the next day. The
judge told me, ‘Kristie Fairchild put herself on the line for you. Come
back in seven days and show me your paperwork, and I’ll release you.’ I
did and I moved in on Valentine’s Day, 2014. That’s love. I’ve been
housed ever since. I haven’t used drugs, I don’t need NarcAnon — I’m done.”

Although he picks up a weekly bag of groceries at the North Beach
Citizens food pantry, Daniels no longer needs to access its other
services. But he comes in every other day anyway. “I eat breakfast and
see what needs to be done,” he says. “Like the cardboard boxes that need
to be broken down. Sometimes I help clean up and vacuum the floor.” When
Fairchild’s name comes up, it’s like somebody turned on a light switch
inside him. “Kristie, she’s my friend,” he says. “I love that lady.”

One of Fairchild’s daily routines is to walk through North Beach,
checking out what’s happening in the neighborhood, who’s new, who’s
misbehaving, who needs help. I accompanied her on one of those walks in
early June, marveling at how she knew every one of the dozen or so
homeless people we came across by name, some of whom I’d seen for months
but who had remained invisible to me. We came upon a well-dressed,
well-groomed 58-year-old woman named Cynthia Jones sitting on a park
bench in Washington Square. Actually, Jones is so presentable and
articulate that I initially think she’s a staffer at North Beach
Citizens. But it turns out that she, like Daniels, is a former client.
Fighting cancer, she lost her house and began living in her car by the
ocean. After her car was impounded and she was reduced to living on the
streets, Jones was assaulted and developed PTSD. She came to North Beach
Citizens and Fairchild did what she does: She helped get Jones a
counselor, put her in temporary stabilization housing in a North Beach
SRO, got her a mailing address, got her on General Assistance and food
stamps, put her on four or five housing lists, and helped her apply for
SSI (disability), a process that takes an average of four years. (Jones
is still waiting for her SSI.) As a crowning touch, Fairchild paid for
her to fly to Seattle, where she was reunited with her daughter.

Today Jones lives in a shared rental in the Western Addition and takes
courses at City College. “I probably wouldn’t have made it without North
Beach Citizens,” she says.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*North Beach Citizens* is not like any other nonprofit homeless service
provider in San Francisco. “It’s the dragon fruit in the salad,” says
Gail Gilman, chief executive officer of Community Housing Partnership
and a 15-year North Beach resident. Several things set it apart. First,
it mainly serves the inhabitants of one specific part of the city, North
Beach, though its focus includes most of District 3, including
Chinatown, Russian Hill, and Fisherman’s Wharf. This neighborhood
orientation is key. It allows Fairchild and her staff to personally know
most of the approximately 300 homeless people in District 3–63 of whom
it housed last year. It provides a focus for the community at large:
It’s a lot easier to feel empathy for people whom you regard not as
alien interlopers, but as your neighbors. “People in the neighborhood
are always making donations, dropping clothes and things off all the
time,” Fairchild says. “That’s huge, because it makes people feel like
they are part of the solution. It makes the community stronger.” Many of
NBC’s financial donors are also from the neighborhood.

The second aspect that sets North Beach Citizens apart is its tininess:
With a staff of five and an annual budget of just $800,000, it’s one of
the smallest homeless service providers in the city. (By comparison, the
Hamilton Family Center receives $12 million from the city; Gilman’s
Community Housing Partnership gets $8 million. In all, nonprofits
receive $175 million of the $202 million budget overseen by the new
Department of Homelessness and Supportive Housing
<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/story/the-mayor-of-tent-city>.)
This small scale — North Beach Citizens receives just $20,000 from the
city for its street beautification program — allows it to create a
smaller community within the larger one, a supportive safe haven for
people who have had little support or safety in their lives.

Third, unlike almost every other service provider in town, North Beach
Citizens gets virtually all of its money from private donations. What
Gilman calls its “unprecedented” private support is in part a legacy
handed down from its founder, filmmaker Francis Ford Coppola, who
started the organization in 2001, and whose continued commitment to and
passion for the organization made shaking the money tree easier in the
early years.

And finally, NBC doesn’t accept anyone who walks in as a client: Its
clients (currently 304 in number) have to be willing to help themselves.
Fairchild says the success of her program depends on her only accepting
people who are prepared to accept certain social norms — “kindergarten
rules,” she calls them — and at least take baby steps toward improving
their lives. Hardcore alcoholics and drug users who refuse treatment and
continually act out, and people with severe psychiatric issues who don’t
take their meds may be given a tryout, but if they don’t get their act
together, they won’t be registered. “People who aren’t ready just create
too many problems, and we don’t have the staff to deal with them,” she
says. “It’s a really small space, and it’s not good for the rest of the
clients. They need to be engaging in a positive way.”

Despite its small size, North Beach Citizens can boast some impressive
achievements. Since 2005, it has found permanent housing for 111
clients. Forty-five people are currently in temporary stabilization
housing, mostly SROs, paid for by the group. It has sent another 45
people back to their home states or cities, after determining that they
had family or support there. It’s located housing for many other clients
who paid for it themselves. And it’s become increasingly effective at
housing its clients: Last year it placed 63 people in permanent or
temporary housing.

But North Beach Citizens’ positive housing outcomes are only part of
what makes it effective — and this is where the organization could offer
lessons to the city at large as it renews its efforts to permanently put
a dent in its homeless crisis. As everyone who works in the field can
attest, just placing homeless people in housing, while a necessary first
step, is not enough. Most homeless individuals need intensive, long-term
support — positive, face-to-face relationships with compassionate,
tough, patient people who won’t give up on them. There aren’t easy
metrics to measure what such support means to homeless people. But
without it, every measurable outcome — housing retention, ability to
work, freedom from substance abuse — is negatively affected.

The strength of the supportive peer community the group has cultivated
can be seen every day at its Kearny Street headquarters between 9:30
a.m. and noon, when it serves breakfast, offers meetings with staff, and
just provides a place for its current and past clients to hang out.
Dozens of people come by every day, eating, talking to friends, catching
up with Kristie or other staffers, volunteering to do tasks like mopping
the floors or unloading the trucks for the Wednesday free food pantry,
and availing themselves of wellness services like acupuncture. Many
people I spoke to said that this community of friends, peers, and
staffers provided a vital safe haven for them.

And key to all of this is size: “They’re only a small group, in a small
space, and that makes it possible for it to become a real community,”
says Community Housing Partnership’s Gilman. “When you have 2,000 people
being served, no matter how hard you try, it’s not going to feel the same.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*As San Francisco *searches for innovative, effective ways to win the
war on homelessness <https://sfhomelessproject.com/>, North Beach
Citizens’ successes in housing and helping significant numbers of
homeless people — with almost no public money, and with minimal staff
and overhead — raise the question: Can its model be successfully
replicated across the city? There are reasons to believe it could. But
there are also limitations on what a neighborhood-based, small-scale
organization like North Beach Citizens can achieve.

In principle, and sometimes in practice, the neighborhood-based service
model can be successful. Respected organizations in the Mission like
Martin de Porres House of Hospitality <http://www.martindeporres.org/>
and the Mission Neighborhood Resource Center
<http://www.mnhc.org/community_programs/mission-neighborhood-resource-center/>
have effectively followed the same model, and there’s no reason to think
that other neighborhoods couldn’t duplicate their efforts if given the
opportunity. Fairchild cites the Richmond as such a neighborhood. “I was
asked to do a survey of homeless people out in the Richmond,” she says.
“They’re born and raised in San Francisco, there’s no way they’re going
to get on a bus and go downtown to the Tenderloin to get services and
then go back out to where they are, so they just kind of survive out
there. And there are the vets who are tucked away at Lands End, who get
their services from the VA and are homeless out there. For those people
to have a place where they could go within their community, and where
people can outreach to them on a daily basis, that seems feasible.”

Alex Briscoe, former director of the Alameda County Health Care Services
Agency, now the managing director for policy at the Tipping Point
Foundation’s new homeless initiative, agrees. North Beach Citizens’
“client-centered approach of meeting people where they are, meeting
their pressing needs, and building social capital and cohesion, could
absolutely be replicated elsewhere,” Briscoe says.

But in order for a neighborhood-based model to work, the neighborhood
has to accept a homeless service provider — and that has proven to be
problematic in San Francisco. While organizations like Community Housing
Partnership have successfully created housing for homeless people in
middle-class neighborhoods, NIMBY-ism continues to be a roadblock. In
2015, for example, Bayview residents successfully lobbied against the
city’s plan to create a 100-bed homeless shelter in the neighborhood.

And even if NBC were able to overcome NIMBYism and open franchises in
middle-class neighborhoods like the Richmond, there aren’t that many
homeless people there — just 80 in all of District 2, according to the
2015 Point in Time count. To really make a dent in San Francisco’s
homeless crisis, you have to tackle the places where, by design and by
happenstance, most of the city’s homeless and homeless service providers
are located: the Tenderloin, SoMa, parts of the Mission, and the
Bayview. Nonprofits like Hospitality House do a fine job in the
Tenderloin, but the sheer numbers of homeless people there, and the
severity of many of their problems, is daunting. An organization like
North Beach Citizens, whose model is based on creating a small,
supportive community, might simply be overwhelmed.

This raises another challenge. By refusing to administer to the most
troubled, North Beach Citizens effectively “creams” its clients — i.e.,
it takes the most functional people, thus making its job considerably
easier. Would it be able to achieve the same outcomes in an environment
where there were much greater numbers of severely distressed people?

The answer’s not clear. For one thing, Fairchild actually takes on a lot
of pretty damaged people — like the wild-eyed, mentally ill man from
Texas who came into the office one day when we were talking. After
briefly conferring with him about a trip home he planned to make, she
told me the story of her history with him. “When I first saw him, he was
half-naked and pushing a shopping cart — one of those guys,” she says.
“We started engaging with him, got him an ID, but he was in bad shape.
It was only a matter of time before something horrible happened to him.
I told him, ‘I looked up ‘crazy homeless person’ in Webster’s and it was
your picture.’ He laughed. You have to establish that kind of rapport
with people. He ended up in jail, which turned out to be the best thing
because he got the correct medication for his schizophrenia. We helped
him reunite with his family and we work with his parole officer.”

For those who are unwilling to help themselves, however, and who fall
into unacceptable behaviors, law enforcement has a role to play,
Fairchild says. “If they’re just going to say ‘No, I just want to drink
all day and panhandle and do my own thing because I can handle that,’
then that’s their choice and a lot of times that becomes a police issue.
When they’re catcalling women and misbehaving in the community, then
it’s a different system that they fit into.”

But if Fairchild doesn’t allow the most problematic homeless people to
ruin NBC’s delicate ecosystem, she doesn’t abandon them, either. During
her walks around North Beach, she engages with people like Robbie, an
older alcoholic man in a wheelchair. “I check in on Robbie to make sure
that he’s OK, if he needs clothing, what’s happening in his world. He’s
so dirty — basically he’s incontinent — that I can’t have him in this
small space. I’ll serve him and he can go or I’ll get him some pants.
But the HOT team [the city’s Homeless Outreach Team] at this point has
picked him up, we’ve advocated for him, and he’s in and out of the
hospital all the time because his health is so bad. We try to coordinate
the care so we know what’s happening with him.”

It’s hard to know exactly how an organization like North Beach Citizens
would do in a place like the Tenderloin, where there are seemingly five
Robbies on every corner. But there’s reason for optimism that it would
have a positive impact — and that it might deliver a bang that’s worth
the relatively few bucks it runs on. Which raises another question about
whether the organization’s model is replicable: its funding. North Beach
Citizens is almost entirely funded by private donations. But not every
neighborhood has a Francis Ford Coppola, and not every nonprofit has a
board of directors that “gives and finds givers,” in Fairchild’s words,
as generously as theirs. If a North Beach Citizens franchise were unable
to raise private funding, could it be successful using city funding?

Fairchild acknowledges that being privately funded gives her much more
flexibility than if she had to deal with the bureaucracy that comes with
city funding. “I can pick up a phone and put someone in an SRO tonight,”
she says. Fairchild isn’t actively lobbying to expand her organization.
But she says she would be happy to receive city money, and doesn’t
believe it would impact her nonprofit’s effectiveness. “Our mission is
to help homeless people. So however we can do that, whether it’s
partnering with the city or partnering with other nonprofits, with
anybody that I can get my hands on, that’s what we’re going to do.”

As for the city itself, new homeless chief Jeff Kositsky says he plans
to evaluate all the nonprofits who make up a crucial part of his tool
chest. “High-performing nonprofits will do very well, and those that
aren’t as effective won’t do as well,” he says. Kositsky plans to meet
with North Beach Citizens later this year.

The final challenge to replicating North Beach Citizens is perhaps the
most daunting one of all: cloning Kristie Fairchild. In many ways,
Fairchild is North Beach Citizens. She’s a straightforward, no B.S.
woman whose job requires her to be part nurturing mom, part expert
navigator of bureaucracies, part shrink, part kindergarten teacher, and
part beat cop. “She’s not gonna take any shit,” says District 3
Supervisor Aaron Peskin. “She gives people what they need, it’s
compassionate and sophisticated tough love.” Peskin pays her the highest
compliment anyone can make within the city’s nonprofit sector, comparing
her positively to the take-no-prisoners founder of Delancey Street.
”She’s like a District 3 Mimi Silber,” he says.

The good news is that, while there’s only one Fairchild, there are many
people in the field who have her same qualities, and many more people
who could develop them. In the end, there’s no secret about how to help
homeless people. No miraculous, saintly, Mother Theresa–like qualities
are required. The battles are won face to face, one person at a time, by
ordinary human beings who possess ordinary human qualities: dedication,
compassion, and smarts. It’s all about giving them the resources they
need to succeed. North Beach Citizens has won more than its share of
those battles. Its model works. And that model could play a larger role
as San Francisco tries to win the war against homelessness.

/Have feedback? Email us at //letterssf@sanfranmag.com/
<mailto:letterssf@sanfranmag.com>/
Email Gary Kamiya at //gkamiya@modernluxury.com/
<mailto:gkamiya@modernluxury.com>/
Follow us on Twitter //@sanfranmag/ <http://twitter.com/@sanfranmag>

Homeless <https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/homeless?source=post>San
Francisco
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/san-francisco?source=post>Housing
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/housing?source=post>Nonprofit
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/nonprofit?source=post>SFHomelessProject
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/sfhomelessproject?source=post>
9
#
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Go to the profile of San Francisco Magazine

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@sanfranmag?source=footer_card>


      San Francisco Magazine <https://sfhomelessproject.com/@sanfranmag>

The monthly magazine of the San Francisco Bay Area. 2015 National
Magazine Award winner.

#
Follow
SF Homeless Project

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=footer_card>


      SF Homeless Project
      <https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=footer_card>

80 publishers, one focus.

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/neighbors-and-nuns-face-off-over-soup-kitchen-6c97e388fe73?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
More from SF Homeless Project
Neighbors and nuns face off over soup kitchen

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/neighbors-and-nuns-face-off-over-soup-kitchen-6c97e388fe73?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
Go to the profile of Mission Local

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@mlnow>
Mission Local
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@mlnow?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
1
<https://brightreads.com/its-ok-to-sit-down-and-think-a98752e57133?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Also tagged SFHomelessProject
“It’s OK to Sit Down and Think”

<https://brightreads.com/its-ok-to-sit-down-and-think-a98752e57133?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Go to the profile of Arjanna van der Plas

<https://brightreads.com/@arjannavanderplas>
Arjanna van der Plas
<https://brightreads.com/@arjannavanderplas?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
7
<https://thebolditalic.com/why-ubers-expansion-plans-would-make-city-life-unbearable-69ed511c401f?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Also tagged San Francisco
Why Uber’s Expansion Plans Would Make City Life Unbearable

<https://thebolditalic.com/why-ubers-expansion-plans-would-make-city-life-unbearable-69ed511c401f?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Go to the profile of Paris Marx

<https://thebolditalic.com/@parismarx>
Paris Marx
<https://thebolditalic.com/@parismarx?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
36
Responses
Write a response…
Unknown user
No responses yet
Show all responses

×

Don’t miss San Francisco Magazine’s next story
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
San Francisco MagazineSan Francisco Magazine
