
  Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund <https://seasonofsharing.org/>

Toggle navigation

  * Home

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/>
  * Stories

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/>
  * About the Fund

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/about-the-fund/>
  * For Those in Need

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/for-those-in-need/>
  * Contact Us

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/contact-us/>
  * Donate Now

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/donate-now/>

  *


      CHANGING LIVES for 30 YEARS

    The Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund provides temporary assistance
    to help people experiencing an unexpected crisis.
  *


      CHANGING LIVES for 30 YEARS

    The Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund provides temporary assistance
    to help people experiencing an unexpected crisis.
  *


      CHANGING LIVES for 30 YEARS

    The Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund provides temporary assistance
    to help people experiencing an unexpected crisis.
  *


      CHANGING LIVES for 30 YEARS

    The Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund provides temporary assistance
    to help people experiencing an unexpected crisis.
  *


      CHANGING LIVES for 30 YEARS

    The Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund provides temporary assistance
    to help people experiencing an unexpected crisis.

 1. 1

 2. 2

 3. 3

100% OF YOUR DONATION HELPS THOSE IN NEED
Donate

<https://seasonofsharing.org/donate-now/>


    Latest Stories

williams
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/gift-of-a-studio-for-engineer-left-homeless-after-2-accidents/>



      12/04/16: Gift of a studio for engineer left homeless after 2
      accidents
      <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/gift-of-a-studio-for-engineer-left-homeless-after-2-accidents/>


Larry Williams sat on a thick folded blanket on the floor of his studio
apartment, back to the wall, an ancient-looking laptop perched on his
thighs. It was the first time he’d turned on his laptop in years — it
took two days just to … More
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/gift-of-a-studio-for-engineer-left-homeless-after-2-accidents/>

pequeno
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/a-year-after-getting-help-napa-family-counting-its-blessings/>



      11/30/16: A year after getting help, Napa family counting its
      blessings
      <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/a-year-after-getting-help-napa-family-counting-its-blessings/>


Watching 3-year-old Xavier Pequeño race around the house in a pair of
Minions socks, one would never guess that he spent last Christmas in
hospital isolation following a bone marrow transplant made necessary by
a rare and deadly immunodeficiency condition. “I’m so fast!” he yelled …
More
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/a-year-after-getting-help-napa-family-counting-its-blessings/>

rankins
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/when-bad-breaks-pile-up-paying-the-rent-can-be-impossible/>



      11/27/16: When bad breaks pile up, paying the rent can be
      impossible
      <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/when-bad-breaks-pile-up-paying-the-rent-can-be-impossible/>


The first of the month has a way of coming around faster than any other
day on the calendar, especially when it’s the day you’re supposed to
slip a check beneath the landlord’s door. And when you have missed a few
firsts of a few … More
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/when-bad-breaks-pile-up-paying-the-rent-can-be-impossible/>


            View all stories <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories>

Friend me on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/seasonofsharing?fref=ts>
Follow me on Twitter <https://twitter.com/SoSFund> Watch me on YouTube
<http://www.youtube.com/user/seasonofsharing>


  2016-2017
  CAMPAIGN FUND TOTAL


  $4,778,392


  HOW IT WORKS

The Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund provides temporary assistance to
help people living in Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, Napa, San Francisco,
San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano and Sonoma counties.

Over the last 30 years, the Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund has raised
more than $113 million to help individuals and families in need.

In 2015-2016 our fundraising campaign raised a record $8 million for
housing assistance, critical family needs and food banks.

*Learn More...* <https://seasonofsharing.org/about-the-fund/how-we-help/>


  MEET OUR DONORS

2016-17 Major Donor List
<https://seasonofsharing.org/2016-2017-major-donors/>

2016-17 Daily Donor List
<https://seasonofsharing.org/2016-2017-daily-donor-list/>


  SEARCH OUR SITE

Search for

Search

Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund • PO Box 44740 • San Francisco, CA •
94144 • 415-777-7120 • Email Us
<mailto:JKirschenbaum@sfchronicle.com?subject=Inquiry%20from%20Website>
Website by Spoke <http://www.spokeconsulting.com/> © 2009-2016 Chronicle
Season of Sharing Fund
Terms of Use <https://seasonofsharing.org/terms-of-use/>• Privacy Policy
<https://seasonofsharing.org/privacy-policy/>

