  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * TheCannifornian.com

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

The Mercury News

<http://www.mercurynews.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local

    <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * TheCannifornian.com

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>


        Churches team up with local agencies to house…
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/26/churches-team-up-with-local-agencies-to-house-homeless-veterans/>



Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/26/churches-team-up-with-local-agencies-to-house-homeless-veterans/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/26/churches-team-up-with-local-agencies-to-house-homeless-veterans/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/26/churches-team-up-with-local-agencies-to-house-homeless-veterans/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/26/churches-team-up-with-local-agencies-to-house-homeless-veterans/#print>
*

<#>

Trending:

  * Megyn Kelly on Trump
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/megyn-kelly-says-its-important-people-learn-of-trumps-actions/>

  * Kaepernick’s bad example
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/editorial-kaepernick-sets-horrible-example-by-refusing-to-vote/>

  * Sheen’s ex, children missing
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/police-searching-for-charlie-sheens-ex-and-their-children/>

  * Tacolicious opens
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/tacolicious-opens-its-san-josesantana-row-outpost/>

  * National monuments v. GOP
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/republicans-seek-to-rein-in-national-monuments-as-trump-takes-power/>

  * Taylor Swift photo leaked
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/14/taylor-swift-sealed-photo-hits-the-internet/>



Business <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>


  Churches team up with local agencies to house homeless veterans


Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/26/churches-team-up-with-local-agencies-to-house-homeless-veterans/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/26/churches-team-up-with-local-agencies-to-house-homeless-veterans/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/26/churches-team-up-with-local-agencies-to-house-homeless-veterans/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/26/churches-team-up-with-local-agencies-to-house-homeless-veterans/#print>
*

By Queenie Wong <http://www.mercurynews.com/author/queenie-wong/> |
qwong@bayareanewsgroup.com <mailto:qwong@bayareanewsgroup.com>	
PUBLISHED: June 26, 2016 at 2:32 pm | UPDATED: August 11, 2016 at 10:49 pm

SAN JOSE — U.S. Army veteran Thomas Turner started to hear voices in his
head four years ago, and ever since then he’s struggled with homelessness.

“It put me in the hospital, and I lost everything and had to start
over,” said Turner, who noted mental illness runs in his family. “When
you start hearing voices and they start answering you, but there’s
nobody there, it really can change your life.”

The 54-year-old slept in front of Pep Boys at one point, but living on
the streets was exhausting. He was tired of being roused by police,
getting weapons pulled on him, grappling with drugs, getting his car
towed and facing a life that had spiraled out of control.

ADVERTISING
inRead invented by Teads <http://inread-experience.teads.tv/>

Now staying in transitional housing run by HomeFirst, an agency that
provides homeless services in Santa Clara County, Turner said he’s
received treatment for his illness, landed a job and is getting back on
his feet.

But many others still need help. There are more than 700 homeless
veterans in Santa Clara County, 63 percent of them unsheltered, county
data show. So the agency recently started working with local churches to
find housing for homeless veterans as part of a countywide initiative
called “Housing One Hero.”

The effort calls on more than 250 local faith-based organizations to
find housing for one homeless veteran by identifying church members who
might have a room, housing them on church grounds or convincing a
landlord to accept a federal housing voucher. Launched in March, it’s
led by county Board of Supervisors President Dave Cortese, San Jose
Mayor Sam Liccardo and the nonprofit Destination: Home.

The work has already begun. On Sunday, HomeFirst was one of the
organizations at GateWay City Church, answering questions from people
who may be interested in renting to a homeless veteran. So far, about 48
people in their congregation are considering the prospect.

“Landlords have the opportunity to choose the best of the best
(applications) and our veterans sometimes don’t match that picture,
because maybe their income is only from VA disability,” said Kelly
Sumner, who manages supportive services for veteran families at
HomeFirst. “These are people who need an opportunity, and our program
can provide support in gaining some stability, but without a safe place
to stay they’re not given the advantage.”

Sunday’s event also included representatives from the U.S. Department of
Veteran’s Affairs, the Housing Authority of Santa Clara County and the
county Office of Supportive Housing.

“We feel like we want give back to the vets who have served our
country,” said David Cannistraci, lead pastor of Gateway City Church. “A
lot of them come back with challenges and struggles in their hearts.”

There are many reasons why a veteran might become homeless, said
veterans and housing experts at the event. Some grapple with
post-traumatic stress disorder or mental illnesses, while others are
simply navigating a highly competitive housing market. And with Silicon
Valley being a hub for tech jobs, veterans may have a tough time
competing for these high-wage roles after they finish their military
service.

Morgan Hill residents Fritz and Cate Gustafson said they’re exploring
the possibility of renting to a veteran. With their children going off
to college, they have the room. Plus, Fritz Gustafson said, his dad
served in the Air Force, so he’s always had a soft spot for veterans.

“I’m warming up to the idea,” said Cate Gustafson, who learned during
the event that the homeless veterans are going through a structured
program.

Other churchgoers such as San Jose resident Wade Siemens are trying to
find other ways to help, such as providing life-skills counseling to
veterans. He remembers talking to a homeless veteran in Seattle one day.
It’s a face that Siemens said he’s never forgotten.

“Housing is something I don’t offer right now but I want to be able to
give somebody self-worth again, get them employed or have them realize
there’s hope at the end of the tunnel,” he said. “It’s been said over
the years that you can live without water so many days, you can live
without food, but you can only live one day without hope. And these men
need to see that.”

Contact Queenie Wong at 408-920-2706. Follow her at Twitter.com/QwongSJ
<http://twitter.com/QwongSJ>.

  * Tags: 
  * California Governor
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/california-governor/>, 
  * Religion <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/religion/>

Queenie Wong, social media businesses and technology reporter, San Jose
Mercury News, for her Wordpress profile. (Michael Malone/Bay Area News
Group)	


Queenie Wong <http://www.mercurynews.com/author/queenie-wong/>

Queenie Wong covers social media businesses, including Facebook, Twitter
and LinkedIn, for The Mercury News. She grew up in Southern California
and is a graduate of Washington and Lee University where she earned
bachelor's degrees in journalism and studio art.
// Follow Queenie Wong @QWongSJ <https://twitter.com/QWongSJ>
Subscribe Today! All Access Digital offer for just 99 cents!
<https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dsssubscribe.aspx>
 
You Might Also Like

  *
    15 Beers You Should Stop Drinking Immediately 15 Beers You Should
    Stop Drinking Immediately True Activist
    <http://www.trueactivist.com/beer-warning-15-beers-to-stop-drinking-immediately/?utm_source=OB&utm_medium=CPC&utm_campaign=BeersToStopDrinkingOBv3&utm_source=OB&utm_medium=CPC&utm_campaign=BeersToStopDrinkingOB>

  *
    See the Sweatshirt That's Getting All the Hype in California See the
    Sweatshirt That's Getting All the Hype in… American Giant on
    Business Insider
    <http://ib.adnxs.com/getuid?http://track.interstateanalytics.com/trackad?link_id=007dc3184db206117c7246ad3e7ed577b0&source=outbrain&campaign=00a6388ce3aa8b109e0947c50fd54ffd03&medium=0049d8ad5b4209f79acdf85ca40f7d1982&project_key=717af0f459a791fdabbf124e204e35363da8aec0&publisher=outbrain&adnxs_uid=$UID&redirect_to=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.businessinsider.com%2Fthis-hoodie-is-so-insanely-popular-you-have-to-wait-months-to-get-it-2013-12>

  *
    Only 1 in 10 People Can Name All These Corporate Logos Only 1 in 10
    People Can Name All These Corporate Logos Offbeat
    <http://offbeat.topix.com/quiz/17314?utm_source=outbrain&utm_campaign=17314&tpx_term=IFS1B86ILV4IJMV8&cvar=t3:i-square-MMIUOA874NV579G9&utm_medium=248358>

  *
    Real Rarity: Quadruplets and the Shock of The Mother After Seing
    Their Faces Real Rarity: Quadruplets and the Shock of The Mother…
    thebuzztube.com
    <http://thebuzztube.com/o-quadruplets-d/?utm_campaign=TBT-US-DKT-OUT-Quadruplets&utm_source=US-DKT-OUT&utm_medium=Quadruplets&utm_content=248358>


  *
    Kate Middleton's Birthday Outfit Just Went Viral Online Kate
    Middleton's Birthday Outfit Just Went Viral Online StyleBistro
    <http://www.stylebistro.com/Happy+Birthday+Kate+Middleton+Check+Out+Her+34+Best+Looks+Ever?utm_source=outb&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=Outb-SB-US-Desktop-Specials-Happy-Birthday-Kate-Middleton->

  *
    Enter Name, Wait 9 Seconds, Brace Yourself Enter Name, Wait 9
    Seconds, Brace Yourself TruthFinder
    <http://tracking.truthfinder.com/?a=163&oc=27&c=303&dip=&s1=TopPerformingWLDesktop>

  *
    Health Headlines | Getting Rid Of Spider Veins Without Surgery?
    Health Headlines | Getting Rid Of Spider Veins Without… Gundry MD
    <http://gundrymd.com/cmd.php?ad=804277&ad=804277>
  *
    When Excavators Spotted Something Stirring in the Mud, What Happened
    Next Was Astonishing When Excavators Spotted Something Stirring in
    the Mud… Scribol
    <http://scribol.com/a/environment/excavators-spotted-something-stirring-mud-baby-deer/?utm_source=Outbrain_Premium&utm_medium=CPC&utm_campaign=Excavators_Mud_Deer_US_Desktop&utm_content=248358>


  *
    Steph Curry’s explosion, the Warriors’ re-distribution of shots, and
    offense-first energy-level these days Steph Curry’s explosion, the
    Warriors’ re-distribution… MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/08/steph-currys-explosion-the-warriors-re-distribution-of-shots-and-offense-first-energy-level-these-days/>

  *
    Rose McGowan: I was raped by top Hollywood exec Rose McGowan: I was
    raped by top Hollywood exec MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/10/17/rose-mcgowan-i-was-raped-by-top-hollywood-exec/>

  *
    UC Santa Cruz student dies one week after hit-and-run UC Santa Cruz
    student dies one week after hit-and-run Walnut Creek Breaking News,
    Sports, Weather, Traffic - EastBayTimes.com
    <http://www.eastbaytimes.com/2016/11/07/uc-santa-cruz-student-dies-one-week-after-hit-and-run/>

  *
    Salma Hayek says she turned Donald Trump down for a date, and he
    retaliated Salma Hayek says she turned Donald Trump down for a…
    MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/10/21/salma-hayek-says-she-turned-donald-trump-down-for-a-date-and-he-retaliated/>


Recommended by<http://www.outbrain.com/what-is/default/en>

blog comments powered by Disqus <http://disqus.com/>

Sign up for our newsletters!

Subscribe <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
Follow Us

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>


    Most Popular

 1. Promising young life cut short in Saratoga crash

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/promising-young-life-cut-short-in-saratoga-crash/>

 2. Free admission to 116 California state parks on Friday after
    Thanksgiving

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/free-admission-to-116-california-state-parks-on-friday-after-thanksgiving/>

 3. Review: Metallica roars on “Hardwired … to Self-Destruct”

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/review-metallica-roars-on-hardwired-to-self-destruct/>

 4. Vietnam War veterans attacked by rare cancer linked to liver flukes

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/vietnam-war-veterans-attacked-by-rare-cancer-linked-to-liver-flukes/>

 5. Warriors GM Bob Myers: “We’re not trading Klay (Thompson)”

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/warriors-gm-bob-myers-were-not-trading-klay-thompson/>

 6. Drake on Kevin Durant’s move: “I’m happy to see my friend happy”

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/drake-on-kevin-durants-move-im-happy-to-see-my-friend-happy/>

 7. San Jose teacher allegedly threatens student with deportation under
    Trump

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/san-jose-teacher-allegedly-threatens-student-with-deportation-under-trump/>

 8. Raiders: Tommie Smith will light Al Davis torch in Mexico City

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/raiders-tommie-smith-will-light-al-davis-torch-in-mexico-city/>


  *

    Palo Alto: 'Grandma's' basement holds lure for new startups

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31630060&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Bay Area jazz icon Larry Vuckovich celebrates 80th birthday

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31634819&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Hands Around Lake Merritt in Oakland, California

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31631109&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Palo Alto: 'Grandma's' basement holds lure for new startups

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31630060&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Bay Area jazz icon Larry Vuckovich celebrates 80th birthday

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31634819&playlistId=18873>



        More videos:

  *
    Bay Area jazz icon Larry Vuckovich celebrates 80th birthday
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31634819&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Hands Around Lake Merritt in Oakland, California
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31631109&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Palo Alto: 'Grandma's' basement holds lure for new startups
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31630060&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Bay Area jazz icon Larry Vuckovich celebrates 80th birthday
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31634819&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Hands Around Lake Merritt in Oakland, California
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31631109&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Palo Alto: 'Grandma's' basement holds lure for new startups
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31630060&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Bay Area jazz icon Larry Vuckovich celebrates 80th birthday
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31634819&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Hands Around Lake Merritt in Oakland, California
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31631109&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Palo Alto: 'Grandma's' basement holds lure for new startups
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31630060&playlistId=18873>



    More in Real Estate

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/redwood-city-releases-draft-plan-for-relocating-docktown-marina-residents/>

    In a press release from the city, Mayor John Seybert said,
    "Providing Docktown community members with reasonable assistance and
    support as they relocate from Docktown Marina was paramount in
    development of the draft Docktown plan. The city is committed to
    working with Docktown residents to collect information about their
    particular circumstances and to discuss feedback as the plan is
    refined."
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/redwood-city-releases-draft-plan-for-relocating-docktown-marina-residents/>



              Redwood City releases draft plan for Docktown Marina
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/redwood-city-releases-draft-plan-for-relocating-docktown-marina-residents/>


    November 16, 2016, 1:45 pm

    In a press release from the city, Mayor John Seybert said,
    “Providing Docktown community members with reasonable assistance and
    support as they relocate from Docktown Marina was paramount in
    development of the draft Docktown plan. The city is committed to
    working with Docktown residents to collect information about their
    particular circumstances and to discuss feedback as the plan is
    refined.”

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/bay-area-mayors-plan-new-manufacturing-initiative/>

    Mayors in the Bay Area, including the leaders of San Jose, Oakland,
    Fremont and San Francisco, are planning a region-wide manufacturing
    initiative.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/bay-area-mayors-plan-new-manufacturing-initiative/>



              Bay Area mayors plan new manufacturing initiative
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/bay-area-mayors-plan-new-manufacturing-initiative/>


    November 16, 2016, 1:47 pm

    Mayors in the Bay Area, including the leaders of San Jose, Oakland,
    Fremont and San Francisco, are planning a region-wide manufacturing
    initiative.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/u-s-homebuilder-confidence-holds-steady-in-november/>

    U.S. homebuilders' confidence held steady this month, though their
    expectations for sales into next year dimmed slightly.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/u-s-homebuilder-confidence-holds-steady-in-november/>



              U.S. homebuilder confidence holds steady in November
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/u-s-homebuilder-confidence-holds-steady-in-november/>


    November 16, 2016, 8:53 am

    U.S. homebuilders’ confidence held steady this month, though their
    expectations for sales into next year dimmed slightly.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/hawaii-faces-major-housing-shortage-with-prices-shooting-up/>

    Hawaii faces major housing shortage, with prices shooting up
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/hawaii-faces-major-housing-shortage-with-prices-shooting-up/>



              Hawaii faces major housing shortage, with prices shooting
              up
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/hawaii-faces-major-housing-shortage-with-prices-shooting-up/>


    November 16, 2016, 8:59 am

    Experts say Hawaii is dealing with a major housing shortage and many
    people could find themselves priced out if nothing is done.

  * Member Services <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
  * News Alerts <https://digioh.com/BANG/general?source=TakeAction>

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>

  * Subscribe

    <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx?pid=22>

    <#>
      o Manage Your Subscription <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
      o All Access Subscriptions <http://www.bayareanewsaccess.com/>
      o Today’s e-Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
      o Newsletter Sign-Up <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
      o Mobile Apps <http://www.mercurynews.com/mobile/>
  * Contact Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/contact-us/>

    <#>
      o Corrections <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/corrections/>
      o Reprints <http://www.mercurynews.com/reprints/>
      o Archive Search <http://www.mercurynews.com/archive-search/>
      o Lottery <http://www.mercurynews.com/lottery/>
  * Classifieds

    <http://marketplace.bayareanewsgroup.com/marketplace/>

    <#>
      o Autos <http://www.norcaldrives.com/>
      o Jobs <http://www.mercurynews.com/jobs/>
      o Real Estate <http://realestate.mercurynews.com/>
      o Place an Obituary
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
      o Place a Legal Ad
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/legals/index.html>
  * Advertise With Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/advertise/>

    <#>
      o Today’s Ads <http://ads.mercurynews.com/>
      o Weekly Ads <http://www.mercurynews.com/weekly-ads/>
      o Local Guide <http://mylocal.mercurynews.com/>
      o Fry’s Ad
        <http://newspaperads.mercurynews.com/FSI/tiles.aspx?advid=200177&loc=53824>
      o Public Notices <http://capublicnotice.com/>

  * © 2016 Digital First Media <http://www.digitalfirstmedia.com/>
  * Site Map <http://www.mercurynews.com/sitemap.xml>
  * Copyright <http://www.mercurynews.com/copyright/>
  * Privacy Policy <http://www.mercurynews.com/privacy-policy/>
  * Powered by WordPress.com VIP <https://vip.wordpress.com/>
  * Bay Area News Group

    <http://www.bayareanewsgroup.com/>

:)


      Email This Article

Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel

<#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

Quantcast
