  * //

    <https://www.facebook.com/inglesidelight>
  * //

    <https://twitter.com/IELightSF>
  * //

    <http://www.ielightsf.com/feed/rss/>

  * News

    <http://www.ielightsf.com/category/news/>
  * Features

    <http://www.ielightsf.com/category/features/>
  * About

    <http://www.ielightsf.com/about/>
  * Advertise With Us

    <http://www.ielightsf.com/advertise/>
  * Newsletter

    <http://www.ielightsf.com/subscribe-2/>
  * Memberships

    <http://www.ielightsf.com/memberships/>

Ingleside-Excelsior Light <http://www.ielightsf.com/>


Ingleside-Excelsior Light

  * News

    <http://www.ielightsf.com/category/news/>
      o
        balboarezmap
        Balboa Reservoir Community Advisory Committee Passes Development
        Parameters

        <http://www.ielightsf.com/2016/09/27/balboa-reservoir-community-advisory-committee-passes-development-parameters/>
      o
        img_2036
        Regulators Ask Navy To Halt Shipyard Land Transfers Amid
        Investigations

        <http://www.ielightsf.com/2016/09/16/regulators-ask-navy-to-halt-shipyard-land-transfers-amid-investigations/>
      o
        d11_dems_02
        District 11 Democratic Club Members Dispute Candidate Endorsements

        <http://www.ielightsf.com/2016/09/14/district-11-democratic-club-members-dispute-candidate-endorsements/>
      o
        d11_dems_05
        District 11 Democratic Club Holds Election Forum, Endorses Jane
        Kim for State Senate and Kimberly Alvarenga for Supervisor

        <http://www.ielightsf.com/2016/09/13/district-11-democratic-club-holds-election-forum-endorses-for-jane-kim-and-kimberly-alvarenga/>
      o
        Will Carruthers/Ingleside-Excelsior Light
        Meet District 7 Supervisor Candidate John Farrell

        <http://www.ielightsf.com/2016/09/12/meet-district-7-supervisor-candidate-john-farrell/>
  * Features

    <http://www.ielightsf.com/category/features/>
      o
        10-30-2016-screen-shot-2016-10-30-at-1-15-44-pm
        District Supervisor Races and a Gallery of Political Landscapes

        <http://www.ielightsf.com/2016/10/30/district-supervisor-races-and-a-gallery-of-political-landscapes/>
      o
        10-11-2016-20160924-diegorivera-3
        Diego Rivera’s Priceless ‘Pan American Unity’ a Neighborhood
        Treasure for 55 Years

        <http://www.ielightsf.com/2016/10/11/diego-riveras-priceless-pan-american-unity-a-neighborhood-treasure-for-55-years/>
      o
        5.13.2016.oceanalehouse
        Ocean Ale House: Bar and Restaurant Bringing a New Vibe to Ingleside

        <http://www.ielightsf.com/2016/06/13/ocean-ale-house-bar-and-restaurant-bringing-a-new-vibe-to-ingleside/>
      o
        Featured Image (stagg)
        The Death of Cornelius Stagg, Part 2

        <http://www.ielightsf.com/2016/05/23/cornelius-stagg-part-2/>
      o
        Featured Image (stagg)
        Cornelius Stagg: Ingleside Rapscallion, Part 1

        <http://www.ielightsf.com/2016/05/23/cornelius-stagg-part-1/>
  * About

    <http://www.ielightsf.com/about/>
  * Advertise With Us

    <http://www.ielightsf.com/advertise/>
  * Newsletter

    <http://www.ielightsf.com/subscribe-2/>
  * Memberships

    <http://www.ielightsf.com/memberships/>

//

// <https://www.facebook.com/inglesidelight> //
<https://twitter.com/IELightSF>
Community Voices <http://www.ielightsf.com/category/community-voices/>


  Community Voices: A Review of San Francisco’s Homeless Crisis Since 2000

By Betsey Culp <http://www.ielightsf.com/author/betsey-culp/> //
<mailto:bculp@ielightsf.com>	
Posted on June 29, 2016

6.29.2016sfhp2	
Emma Chiang/Ingleside-Excelsior Light
//Share
 <#> //Tweet
 <#> //Share
 <whatsapp://send?text=Community%20Voices:%20A%20Review%20of%20San%20Francisco%E2%80%99s%20Homeless%20Crisis%20Since%202000%20http://www.ielightsf.com/2016/06/29/community-voices-a-review-of-san-franciscos-homeless-crisis-since-2000/> //Share
 <#> //Email
 <mailto:?subject=Community%20Voices:%20A%20Review%20of%20San%20Francisco%E2%80%99s%20Homeless%20Crisis%20Since%202000&BODY=I%20found%20this%20article%20interesting%20and%20thought%20of%20sharing%20it%20with%20you.%20Check%20it%20out:%20http://www.ielightsf.com/2016/06/29/community-voices-a-review-of-san-franciscos-homeless-crisis-since-2000/> 0 Comments <#disqus_thread>

More than 6,500 people are homeless in San Francisco. That’s far too
many. Our own eyes tell us so and so do the media and the politicians.
People are as angry as wet chickens, with feathers flying everywhere,
unable to coalesce into warm, comfortable nests. In response, the San
Francisco Chronicle proposed a San Francisco Homeless Project, a
citywide media blitz that Editor-in-Chief Audrey Cooper says will be
“nothing less than complete civic engagement and understanding of the
multiple causes and solutions to homelessness.” What you are reading now
is part of that project.

In City Hall the flurry is finding a focus. Most recently, the Board of
Supervisors voted to add at least six new Navigation Centers to the two
that are already in the works, experimental facilities providing
comprehensive social services and housing aid to San Francisco’s
“difficult-to-serve homeless population.” That’s shorthand for “birds of
a feather that flock together in camps.”

District 2 Supervisor Mark Farrell offered another approach to the same
problem: an initiative called “Housing, Not Tents.” He’d like voters in
November to authorize the city to dismantle “dangerous and unhealthy”
homeless encampments—with 24-hour written notice—in exchange for a
shelter or housing opportunity or a ticket out of town. And the
Chronicle notes that District 11 Supervisor John Avalos is preparing a
counter solution: to provide bathroom and garbage services for the camps.

During the last encampment sweep, on Division Street in March, about 300
people were living in 65 tents. That’s enough people to make quite a
mess, enough people to make passers-by rather nervous and apparently
enough to set off a major campaign among the media and the politicians.

Once again the people of San Francisco are showing their infinite
capacity for living in the moment. Sometimes they’re like budgies on an
exercise wheel, going round and round, getting nowhere. They forget that
there are other times and other places. But contrary to the opinion of
historically and geographically challenged observers, sometimes things
do change.

Travel back to the beginning of this century, when San Francisco was
soaring on a dot.com thermal. Estimates of homeless populations were
less scientific then, but the usually accepted figure is about 12,500.
Four years of Willie Brown as mayor meant that it was no longer illegal
to serve soup to a street person without a permit, but the police still
handed out 23,000 quality-of-life citations in 1999. A homeless person’s
path to food and shelter was so byzantine that the Local Homeless
Coordinating Board called it “survival of the fittest.”

The city felt out of control, as it sometimes does now. Policymakers
grasped at straws. The Department of Human Services proposed a system of
coordinated access points for shelter applicants, probably not the best
idea for a city with a rudimentary computer system.

After 9/11, the city felt even more out of control. The economy
plummeted, and shadows of vultures appeared on the skyline. The streets
were lined with fallen sparrows: the city’s homeless count was 5,376 in
2000, 7,305 in 2001 and 8,640 in 2002.

Homelessness loomed large in the mayoral election of 2003, with Gavin
Newsom riding on the wings of his recently approved Care Not Cash
program and Angela Alioto pushing for a more humane shelter system. A
measure banning aggressive panhandling was also on the ballot.

The voters banned aggressive panhandling and elected Newsom, who
immediately rewarded Alioto for her passionate campaign. He appointed
her to head a council preparing San Francisco’s Ten-Year Plan to End
Chronic Homelessness, giving her four months to complete the task. By
then, the city was known as the homeless capital of the United States,
with an estimated homeless population of 15,000.

Newsom unveiled the ten-year plan with great fanfare on June 30, 2004.
Once again San Francisco portrayed itself as the Great American
Innovator, this time with a “‘Housing First’ model, which “emphasizes
immediate placement of the individual in permanent supportive housing,
and then provides the services, on site, necessary to stabilize the
individual and keep them housed.” Newsom said, “This won’t all happen
tomorrow. But it will get done.”

And of course it didn’t.

But something else did. Instead of soaring overhead like a proud, lonely
eagle, the city of Saint Francis joined a huge aviary of like-minded
birds. As any bureaucrat or service provider will tell you, the city’s
ten-year plan is only one of at least 234 that were filed with the U.S.
Interagency Council on Homelessness in 2004. Each was examined and
evaluated, becoming part of a national ten-year plan called “Opening
Doors,” which was announced in 2010.

The feds say, “Homelessness is a problem we can solve.” A problem. Not a
crisis. They’ve seen the principles developed by the various cities and
towns in action; they know what works. Leading the list are the words
that Newsom used to describe San Francisco’s plan: “Housing First.” The
other elements are also familiar to bureaucrats and service providers,
although they might stick in a few politicians’ craws: data tracking,
collaboration and investment.

Jennifer Friedenbach, executive director of the Coalition on
Homelessness, often ruffles the establishment’s feathers. But she offers
a hopeful note in a recent Examiner op-ed: “San Francisco is housing
6,000 homeless people now. With turnover and new-planned units, it can
house an additional 250 to 500 people a year. That is not bad.”

A report from the Controller’s Office on the performance of the city’s
first Navigation Center is equally optimistic: during the first 10
months, 142 of its clients moved to permanent housing.

But the success is bittersweet. The report adds, “The single navigation
center currently in operation requires about 22% of the City’s existing
supportive housing stock for single adults.” Friedenbach echoes its
concern: “We need to create a progressive, sustainable revenue source to
ensure we have the resources we need to put a serious dent in this issue.”

Housing first; data tracking; collaboration; investment—these are fine
feathers for a city bird. And when held firmly in the hand, they beat
any two encampments in the bush.

/Betsey Culp published the/ San Francisco Call /newspaper from 2000 to
2005./ /This article was produced as part of the San Francisco Homeless
Project, an effort of 70 Bay Area publications to focus on the issue of
homelessness for one day. Articles produced for the project by other
media can be found on Facebook
<http://www.facebook.com/sfhomelessproject>, Medium
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/>, SFGate
<http://www.sfgate.com/homeless/> and Twitter
<https://twitter.com/bayareahomeless> (#SFHomelessProject)./

Related Items:City Hall <http://www.ielightsf.com/tag/city-hall/>,
District 11 Supervisor John Avalos
<http://www.ielightsf.com/tag/district-11-supervisor-john-avalos/>,
homeless <http://www.ielightsf.com/tag/homeless/>, Mayor Ed Lee
<http://www.ielightsf.com/tag/mayor-ed-lee/>, Mayor Gavin Newsom
<http://www.ielightsf.com/tag/mayor-gavin-newsom/>, mayor willie brown
<http://www.ielightsf.com/tag/mayor-willie-brown/>
//Share
 <#> //Tweet
 <#> //Share
 <whatsapp://send?text=Community%20Voices:%20A%20Review%20of%20San%20Francisco%E2%80%99s%20Homeless%20Crisis%20Since%202000%20http://www.ielightsf.com/2016/06/29/community-voices-a-review-of-san-franciscos-homeless-crisis-since-2000/> //Share
 <#> //Email
 <mailto:?subject=Community%20Voices:%20A%20Review%20of%20San%20Francisco%E2%80%99s%20Homeless%20Crisis%20Since%202000&BODY=I%20found%20this%20article%20interesting%20and%20thought%20of%20sharing%20it%20with%20you.%20Check%20it%20out:%20http://www.ielightsf.com/2016/06/29/community-voices-a-review-of-san-franciscos-homeless-crisis-since-2000/>


Most Popular

5.13.2016.oceanalehouse	5.13.2016.oceanalehouse	
// 8.1K
Community Profile


    Ocean Avenue Spring Stroll: Ocean Ale House Opening Today

<http://www.ielightsf.com/2016/05/13/ocean-avenue-spring-stroll-ocean-ale-house-opening-today/>

SFMTACAC-2-4-16	SFMTACAC-2-4-16	
// 5.3K
// 1
News


    Muni Citizens’ Advisory Council: Budget, Clipper and Transit Equity
    Examined

<http://www.ielightsf.com/2016/02/12/muni-citizens-advisory-council-budget-clipper-and-transit-equity-examined/>

Alemany Hospital (web opt)	Alemany Hospital (web opt)	
// 5.1K
Features


    The Alemany Emergency Hospital and Health Center: The Hidden History
    Behind the New Deal Era Buildings

<http://www.ielightsf.com/2016/01/07/the-alemany-emergency-hospital-and-health-center-the-hidden-history-behind-the-new-deal-era-buildings/>

Blighted-Property-the-Pink-Spot	Blighted-Property-the-Pink-Spot	
// 4.3K
Features


    Opinion: Fighting Blighted Properties with Better Enforcement

<http://www.ielightsf.com/2015/12/08/opinion-fighting-blighted-properties-with-better-enforcement/>

6.23.2016.kimberly.alvarenga	6.23.2016.kimberly.alvarenga	
// 3.6K
Interview


    Meet District 11 Candidate Kimberly Alvarenga

<http://www.ielightsf.com/2016/06/23/meet-district-11-candidate-kimberly-alvarenga/>

Ingleside-Excelsior Light

The Ingleside-Excelsior Light is an independent neighborhood news source
in San Francisco.

  * // <https://www.facebook.com/inglesidelight>
  * // <https://twitter.com/IELightSF>
  * // <http://www.ielightsf.com/feed/rss/>

  * News <http://www.ielightsf.com/category/news/>
  * Features <http://www.ielightsf.com/category/features/>
  * About <http://www.ielightsf.com/about/>
  * Advertise With Us <http://www.ielightsf.com/advertise/>
  * Newsletter <http://www.ielightsf.com/subscribe-2/>
  * Memberships <http://www.ielightsf.com/memberships/>

Copyright © 2015 Ingleside-Excelsior Light

/

/ To Top
