  * MotherJones

    <http://www.motherjones.com/>
  * Could This Silicon Valley Algorithm Pick Which Homeless People Get
    Housing?
  * //Share on Facebook

    <http://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2016/06/homelessness-data-silicon-valley-prediction-santa-clara>

  * //Share on Twitter

    <http://twitter.com/home?status=Could+this+algorithm+pick+which+homeless+people+need+housing+most+urgently%3F%20http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2016/06/homelessness-data-silicon-valley-prediction-santa-clara%20via%20@MotherJones>

  *

                
                
                
                
              

  * Donate

    <https://secure.motherjones.com/fnp/?action=SUBSCRIPTION&list_source=7HEGP002&extra_don=1&abver=A>

  * Subscribe

    <https://secure.motherjones.com/fnx/?action=SUBSCRIPTION&pub_code=MJM&term_pub=MJM&list_source=SEGYN1&base_country=US>


  * Search

    <http://www.motherjones.com/search/apachesolr_search>
  * Newsletter

    <http://www.motherjones.com/about/interact-engage/free-email-newsletter>
  * Magazine

    <http://www.motherjones.com/magazine>
  * Politics

    <http://www.motherjones.com/politics>
  * Environment

    <http://www.motherjones.com/environment>
  * Media

    <http://www.motherjones.com/media>
  * Crime and Justice

    <http://www.motherjones.com/topics/crime-and-justice>
  * Food

    <http://www.motherjones.com/topics/food>
  * Guns

    <http://www.motherjones.com/topics/guns>
  * Dark Money

    <http://www.motherjones.com/topics/dark-money>
  * Photos

    <http://www.motherjones.com/photoessays>
  * Investigations

    <http://www.motherjones.com/topics/investigations>
  * Podcasts

    <http://www.motherjones.com/podcasts>
  * Kevin Drum

    <http://www.motherjones.com/kevin-drum>
  * About

    <http://www.motherjones.com/about>
  * Subscribe

    <https://secure.motherjones.com/fnx/?action=SUBSCRIPTION&pub_code=MJM&term_pub=MJM&list_source=SEGYN1A&base_country=US>
  * Donate

    <https://secure.motherjones.com/fnp/?action=SUBSCRIPTION&list_source=7HEGP003&extra_don=1&abver=A>

Skip to Navigation

<#navigation>
Skip to Content

<#site-content>
<http://www.motherjones.com/category/secondary-tags/bite>

  * <http://www.motherjones.com/>
  * Politics <http://www.motherjones.com/politics>
  * Environment <http://www.motherjones.com/environment>
  * Food <http://www.motherjones.com/topics/food>
  * Media <http://www.motherjones.com/media>
  * Crime & Justice <http://www.motherjones.com/topics/crime-and-justice>
  * Photos <http://www.motherjones.com/photoessays>
  * Investigations <http://www.motherjones.com/topics/investigations>
  * Magazine <http://www.motherjones.com/magazine>
  * Subscribe
    <https://secure.motherjones.com/fnx/?action=SUBSCRIPTION&pub_code=MJM&term_pub=MJM&list_source=SEGYN&base_country=US>
  * Donate
    <https://secure.motherjones.com/fnp/?action=SUBSCRIPTION&list_source=7HEGP001&extra_don=1&abver=A>


  Could This Silicon Valley Algorithm Pick Which Homeless People Get
  Housing?


      A new approach seeks to find the most desperate people on the
      streets—with data.

Josh Harkinson <http://www.motherjones.com/authors/josh-harkinson> Jun.
29, 2016 5:00 AM

  *
    /

    /Share on Facebook

    <http://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2016/06/homelessness-data-silicon-valley-prediction-santa-clara>
  *
    /

    /Share on Twitter

    <http://twitter.com/home?status=Could+this+algorithm+pick+which+homeless+people+need+housing+most+urgently%3F%20http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2016/06/homelessness-data-silicon-valley-prediction-santa-clara%20via%20@MotherJones>
  *
    /

    /Email

    <http://www.motherjones.com/forward?path=node/307811>
  *
    /

    /

    <http://www.motherjones.com/print/307811>

Like San Francisco, Silicon Valley is known for the glaring divide
between its tech-fueled affluence and its persistent homelessness
problem. An estimated 6,500 homeless people live in Santa Clara County,
California, an area that stretches from suburban Palo Alto to the garlic
fields of Gilroy. Seventy percent of its homeless population lives on
the streets, in cars, or in parks, often in plain sight of glittering
corporate campuses. In late 2014, more than 300 people were cleared out
of the Jungle
<http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2014/12/jungle-homeless-camp-san-jose-silicon-valley-video>,
a large encampment not far from Apple's headquarters in San Jose. And
while the county's homeless population has been declining, there just
aren't enough places to give everyone housing.

*This article is part of the SF Homeless Project
<http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2016/06/san-francisco-homeless-project-mother-jones>,
a collaboration between nearly 70 media organizations to explore the
state of homelessness in San Francisco and potential solutions. *

Enter the geeks. Earlier this year, Santa Clara County unveiled a
sophisticated algorithm that could revolutionize the way homeless people
are picked for housing. The algorithm, known as the Silicon Valley
Triage Tool
<http://destinationhomescc.org/the-silicon-valley-triage-tool/>, draws
on millions of pieces of data to predict which homeless individuals will
use the most public services like emergency rooms, hospitals, and jails.
The researchers behind the project calculate that identifying and
quickly housing 1,000 of these high-cost people could save more than $19
million a year—money that could be rolled into providing more housing
for homeless people.

"Instead of just throwing money at the problem in a scattershot
approach, we need to invest where we're going to see the biggest gains,"
explains Jennifer Loving, the director of Destination:Home
<http://destinationhomescc.org/>, the public-private partnership that
cosponsored the development of this data-driven model. "Maybe it sounds
very Silicon Valley, but it just seems obvious."

 


      Homelessness in major California counties, 2015

Santa Clara County's model is focused on reducing costs while better
serving chronically homeless people. The 10 percent of homeless people
with the highest public costs accounted for a whopping 61 percent of the
county's expenditures on homelessness in 2012; the top 5 percent
accounted for 47 percent of costs.

Those stats came to light after Santa Clara County commissioned an
unprecedented breakdown
<http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2015/05/santa-clara-silicon-valley-homelessness>
of its public expenditures on the 104,000 people who had been homeless
in the county over a six-year period. Conducted by the Los Angeles-based
Economic Roundtable, the 2015 study
<http://destinationhomescc.org/homenotfound/> concluded that the
county's 2,800 most persistently homeless people used an average of
$83,000 in public services a year, far exceeding the cost of simply
providing them with permanent supportive housing. The researchers found
26 people who had annual costs of more than $300,000. One was a
32-year-old man with schizophrenia and a musculoskeletal disorder who
spent 322 days in the hospital and 10 days in jail in a single year, at
a cost of $1.5 million.

Most cities and counties don't track how much they spend on individual
homeless people. Homeless people's personal data tends to be scattered
across entities like housing programs, hospitals, police departments,
and drug and alcohol treatment programs. (A recent audit
<http://www.sfbos.org/Modules/ShowDocument.aspx?documentid=56163> of San
Francisco's homelessness services noted that its programs maintain
multiple unlinked and incompatible data systems.) The Economic
Roundtable processed more than 25 million health, law enforcement, and
social-service records that documented individuals' demographics,
medical and mental health diagnoses, ER and hospital visits, arrests,
and jail time. Compiling and analyzing the data while adhering to
medical privacy laws was "a huge lift" that took more than three years,
says Ky Le, the director of the county's Office of Supportive Housing.

2,800 persistently homeless people used an average of $83,000 in
services a year, far exceeding the cost of simply  housing them.

Yet finally having that comprehensive data allowed Le to start
rethinking how he placed people in housing. The county's approach
<http://destinationhomescc.org/our-work/> builds upon a philosophy known
as Housing First
<http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2015/02/housing-first-solution-to-homelessness-utah>,
which centers on giving chronically homeless people long-term housing as
quickly as possible, with few if any strings attached. When San
Francisco and New York pioneered the Housing First model in the 1990s
and 2000s, critics said it coddled drunks and drug abusers. Yet
experience has consistently shown that prioritizing housing for the most
distressed homeless people makes it easier to address their other needs,
such as medical care and mental health. And it saves taxpayers
money—often a lot of money. After San Francisco placed 162 people with
unusually high service costs into supportive housing, it reported
slashing their annual service costs by 72 percent, or $21.4 million.
Similar outcomes have led to the adoption of Housing First in cities
such as Seattle and Salt Lake City
<http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2015/02/housing-first-solution-to-homelessness-utah>.

*Read: The shockingly simple, cost-effective way to fix homelessness
<http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2015/02/housing-first-solution-to-homelessness-utah>*

But Housing First has limits. The supply of supportive housing cannot
match demand, particularly in the insanely expensive real estate markets
of San Francisco and Silicon Valley. And according to the Economic
Roundtable, the current criteria for assigning housing may
unintentionally overlook people with acute problems. Like most local
governments, Santa Clara County has based housing preference on two
factors: how long people have been homeless, and their self-reported
medical and mental health issues (known as a "vulnerability index
survey"). Le knew that approach wasn't perfect. "Those are definite
indicators of need," he says, "but it didn't necessarily mean that
everyone we housed were the highest users or even frequent users of our
public safety net services. We wanted a good tool that would really
allow us to find people who were going to use those services a lot."

Digging into data to better serve the homeless population has been tried
elsewhere. San Francisco's Department of Public Health, which oversees a
third of the city's 5,000 supportive housing units, uses health and jail
records to identify the highest-cost homeless people and prioritize them
for housing. Social workers at Los Angeles hospitals use a similar tool,
as does the Department of Veterans Affairs. Yet unlike Santa Clara
County's model, none of these systems is predictive: They can identify
homeless people who cost a lot right now, but not necessarily those who
are most likely to run up the most future costs.

Those are the people that Santa Clara County wanted to find. Using the
data compiled on the county's homeless population, Daniel Flaming, the
Economic Roundtable's president, built a predictive analytic statistical
algorithm based on 38 variables that can predict if someone will fall
into the group of homeless people with the highest costs. (Likewise, the
model tries to eliminate false positives—people with characteristics of
the highest-cost group who will not have high costs.) The most
predictive variables include continuous homelessness for three or more
years, chronic medical conditions, schizophrenia, drug or alcohol abuse,
and frequent ER admissions and hospital stays, as well as repeated
arrests and jail time. "It is usually not just one problem—it is a
combination," Flaming says.

 


      Characteristics of the most vulnerable homeless people

This analysis is the backbone of the Silicon Valley Triage Tool
<http://destinationhomescc.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/Triage-Tool-Report-FINAL-2-10-2016.pdf>,
which calculates an individual's probability of accruing high public
service costs. Using the tool could reduce Santa Clara's annual spending
on homelessness by 4 percent, Flaming estimates. That's not an
insignificant figure when you consider its total spending is about $520
million <http://destinationhomescc.org/homenotfound/> annually. (San
Francisco says it spends more than $200 million a year on homelessness,
though it used a different methodology than Santa Clara to reach that
figure.)

The promise of using big data to combat homelessness is hard to resist
in Silicon Valley. Destination:Home's funders include tech giants such
as Google, EBay, Cisco, and Symantec. Last week, Google announced a $1
million grant to Destination:Home to help develop an algorithm that will
prioritize homeless people for temporary and transitional housing.
"Obviously we are a data company and an innovation company, so we really
like to see data being used," says Justin Steele of the company's
philanthropic arm, Google.org. "That is why we were so excited about the
Destination:Home project—it was really tied to outcomes."

Yet advocates of this approach insist that it's not just efficient, but
also humane. "It shouldn't just be about cost," says Loving of
Destination:Home. "But we know that there's a cohort of people who are
jamming up the system, who are overutilizing services, who are suffering
on a daily basis, and housing is the medicine they need. So how do we
find them?"

"There's a cohort of people who are suffering on a daily basis, and
housing is the medicine they need. So how do we find them?"

Though Santa Clara County hasn't decided exactly how it will use the
Silicon Valley Triage Tool to make housing decisions, it is unlikely to
completely eliminate human discretion from the process. For one thing,
the tool may not flag homeless families, whose children may not cost
much in the short term but suffer serious long-term consequences from
growing without a stable home. And the tool could conceivably miss some
high-needs homeless people who might be easily identified by doctors and
caseworkers.

There are also questions about whether the tool's algorithm emphasizes
savings at the expense of equity. It gives higher scores to men because
they tend to rack up higher public service costs. Conversely, it
identifies homeless women as less expensive. (Latinos, Asian Americas,
and immigrants are also less likely to be in the high-cost group.)
Factoring gender into medical diagnoses isn't unusual, but it becomes
harder to justify when the treatment in question is housing. Clinical
methods "should be exported to prioritizing housing to improve health
outcomes," says Joshua Bamberger, the medical director of the housing
and urban health section of the city's Department of Public Health.
"However, the affordable housing system should be protected from any
bias. So which is our system?"

San Francisco is grappling with these questions as it seeks to compile
its own comprehensive data on its homelessness expenditures and revamp
its system for assigning housing. San Francisco's new prioritization
system "will likely be algorithmic," says Megan Owens Faught, a program
manager in the housing and homelessness department of the San Francisco
Human Services Agency.

Flaming, of the Economic Roundtable, says California's agencies already
have all the information they need to develop a statewide database
similar to the one in Santa Clara County. That way, any city or county
could use his data-driven approach to target people with the most urgent
need for housing. "It would be effective and quite accurate," he says.
"This is by far the way you get the most bang for your buck."

/Top image: An abandoned campsite in the Jungle, the San Jose encampment
cleared out by police in late 2014. Lipo Ching/TNS/ZUMA Wire/


          Get the scoop,  straight from Mother Jones.

// 	

  * //Share on Facebook

    <http://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2016/06/homelessness-data-silicon-valley-prediction-santa-clara>
  * //Share on Twitter

    <http://twitter.com/home?status=Could+this+algorithm+pick+which+homeless+people+need+housing+most+urgently%3F%20http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2016/06/homelessness-data-silicon-valley-prediction-santa-clara%20via%20@MotherJones>

Josh Harkinson <http://www.motherjones.com/authors/josh-harkinson>
/

/ <http://twitter.com/joshharkinson>

Josh Harkinson is a staff reporter at /Mother Jones/. For more of his
stories, click here <http://www.motherjones.com/authors/josh-harkinson>.
Email him with tips at jharkinson (at) motherjones (dot) com. PGP public
key.
<https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_euogs_5Cl38TemNcyN1QN22EGlmuWstcmmEgMF6d0M/edit>

/Mother Jones/ is a nonprofit, and stories like this are made possible
by readers like you. Donate
<https://secure.motherjones.com/fnp/?action=SUBSCRIPTION&list_source=7HEGP004&extra_don=1&abver=A>
or subscribe
<https://secure.motherjones.com/fnx/?action=SUBSCRIPTION&pub_code=MJM&term_pub=MJM&list_source=SEGYN4&base_country=US>
to help fund independent journalism.


Related

  * <http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2015/02/housing-first-solution-to-homelessness-utah>


          The Shockingly Simple, Surprisingly Cost-Effective Way to End
          Homelessness
          <http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2015/02/housing-first-solution-to-homelessness-utah>

    Scott Carrier <http://www.motherjones.com/authors/scott-carrier>
  * <http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2015/05/santa-clara-silicon-valley-homelessness>


          Silicon Valley Discovers the Cheapest Way to Help the
          Homeless: Give Them Homes
          <http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2015/05/santa-clara-silicon-valley-homelessness>

    Gabrielle Canon <http://www.motherjones.com/authors/gabrielle-canon>

//view comments

<http://motherjones.disqus.com/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.motherjones.com%2Fnode%2F307811>
Mother Jones <http://www.motherjones.com/>

  *
    /

    /

    <https://www.facebook.com/motherjones>
  *
    /

    /

    <https://twitter.com/motherjones>
  *

    <http://www.motherjones.com/about/interact-engage/free-email-newsletter>


  * About Us <http://www.motherjones.com/about> | Store
    <http://store.motherjones.com/?utm_source=motherjones&utm_medium=footer&utm_content=orangefooterlink&utm_campaign=evergreen>

  * Donate <http://www.motherjones.com/about/support> | Subscribe
    <https://secure.motherjones.com/fnx/?action=SUBSCRIPTION&pub_code=MJM&term_pub=MJM&list_source=SEGYN4&base_country=US>

  * Customer Service
    <http://www.motherjones.com/about/subscriptions/customer-service>
  * Advertise <http://www.motherjones.com/about/advertising/contact-form>

Copyright ©2016 Mother Jones and the Foundation for National Progress.
All Rights Reserved.

Terms of Service <http://www.motherjones.com/about/terms> Privacy Policy
<http://www.motherjones.com/about/privacy-policy> Contact Us
<http://www.motherjones.com/about/contact>

We noticed you have an ad blocker on. Support nonprofit investigative
reporting by pitching in a few bucks. DONATE
<https://secure.motherjones.com/fnp/?action=SUBSCRIPTION&list_source=7HEGZS1A&extra_don=1&abver=A>
X

