  * San Francisco

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>
      o Radio.com

        <http://radio.com/>
      o CBS Local Sports

        <http://sports.cbslocal.com/>
      o CBS Sports Radio

        <http://radio.cbssports.com/>
      o Tailgate Fan

        <http://tailgatefan.cbslocal.com/>
      o Atlanta

        <http://atlanta.cbslocal.com/>
      o Baltimore

        <http://baltimore.cbslocal.com/>
      o Boston

        <http://boston.cbslocal.com/>
      o Chicago

        <http://chicago.cbslocal.com/>
      o Cleveland

        <http://cleveland.cbslocal.com/>
      o Connecticut

        <http://connecticut.cbslocal.com/>
      o Dallas

        <http://dallas.cbslocal.com/>
      o Denver

        <http://denver.cbslocal.com/>
      o Detroit

        <http://detroit.cbslocal.com/>
      o Houston

        <http://houston.cbslocal.com/>
      o Las Vegas

        <http://lasvegas.cbslocal.com/>
      o Los Angeles

        <http://losangeles.cbslocal.com/>
      o Miami

        <http://miami.cbslocal.com/>
      o Minnesota

        <http://minnesota.cbslocal.com/>
      o New York

        <http://newyork.cbslocal.com/>
      o Philadelphia

        <http://philadelphia.cbslocal.com/>
      o Pittsburgh

        <http://pittsburgh.cbslocal.com/>
      o Sacramento

        <http://sacramento.cbslocal.com/>
      o Seattle

        <http://seattle.cbslocal.com/>
      o St Louis

        <http://stlouis.cbslocal.com/>
      o Tampa

        <http://tampa.cbslocal.com/>
      o Washington

        <http://washington.cbslocal.com/>
  * SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTERS

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/newsletter/signup/>

Log InRegister

*Sponsored By

*
CBS San Francisco

<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>
*51*°/f/

<http://weather.sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>
5KPIX[1]
*KPIX 5 | CBS San Francisco*/Connect With Us At KPIX 5 PROGRAM GUIDE:
KPIX 5 TV Schedule WATCH: A Glimpse Inside The Working KPIX 5 Newsroom
Breaking News Send news tips, video & photos, and video to the KPIX 5
newsroom MyPix Share your weather, news, or event photos ConsumerWatch
Got a problem? We want to help you resolve it [...]/

<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/station/cbs-5/>
KCBS[1]
*CONNECT WITH KCBS*/Welcome to KCBS All News 740AM & 106.9FM on
http://www.cbsSF.com!   LISTEN LIVE RIGHT NOW: KCBS Live Audio Stream  
  LIKE KCBS Radio On Facebook: KCBS is the Bay Area’s only all news
station, serving listeners with local, national and world news around
the clock, traffic and weather together every ten minutes “on the [...]/

<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/station/kcbs/>
Facebook

<http://www.facebook.com/CBSSanFrancisco>Twitter

<http://twitter.com/#!/cbssf>YouTube

<https://www.youtube.com/user/CBSSanFrancisco>TuneIn

<http://tunein.com/radio/KCBS-All-News-740-AM--1069-FM-s67148/>Instagram

<https://www.instagram.com/kpixtv/>

  * *Home*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>
  * *News*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/>
  * *Traffic*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/traffic-map-2/>
  * *Weather*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/weather/>
  * *Sports*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/>
  * *Health*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/healthwatch/>
  * *Eat.See.Play*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/eat-see-play/>
  * *Events*

    <http://events.sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>
  * *Video*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/video/category/spoken-word-kpixtv/>
  * *Audio*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/audio/>
  * *Autos*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/autos/>
  * *Contests*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/contest-promotions/>

  * Latest News

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news>
  * Local

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/local/>
  * Expect More

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/special_reports/>
  * LGBT

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/lgbt/>
  * Politics

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/politics/>
  * Environment

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/environment/>
  * Tech

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/tech/>
  * Business

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/business/>
  * Entertainment

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/entertainment/>
  * Education

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/education/>


  Despite $241 Million Budget, SF Still Struggling With Homelessness

/June 27, 2016 6:08 PM/ By Wilson Walker
*Filed Under:* City Government
<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/tag/city-government/>, Department of
Homelessness
<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/tag/department-of-homelessness/>,
Homelessness <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/tag/homelessness/>, San
Francisco <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/tag/san-francisco/>, San
Francisco Homeless Project
<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/tag/san-francisco-homeless-project/>

<#>

<#>

<#>
<#comments>

SAN FRANCISCO (CBS SF) — With San Francisco spendingnearly a quarter of
a billion dollars on the homeless every year, many are asking how there
are still thousands of people living on the street.

The size of the annual homeless budget — $241 million per year — also
has residents wondering where that money goes and how the system might
be improved.

From that $241 million dollars, $50 million funds shelters, while
another $50 million funds health servicesfor the truly homeless.

But the single most important thing to know about that $241 million
figure is that most of it has absolutely nothing to do with the people
we seeon the streets.

“That is a great observation, I think it’s missed by many in the city,”
said Department of Homelessness spokesman Jeff Kositsky. “We’re not
spending $241 million on the 7,000 people who are homeless. We’re
spending more than half of that money to keep people in permanent housing.”

$140 million worth of the entire San Francisco homeless budget houses
approximately 9,000 people. And those are 9,000 people that aren’t even
counted among the current homeless.

“Like all of our hotels, people that have lived in housing for ten years
are in the homeless budget,” said Randy Shaw of the Tenderloin Housing
Clinic. “So people say, ‘Well, we don’t notice it.’ But if we didn’t do
it, you’d notice it. The numbers would be off the charts.”

So that leaves the 6,686 people we do count as homeless. They fall in to
two separate categories: those who live in some kind of temporary
shelter and those who actually live on the street.

Two perfect examples of this walked right up to KPIX 5 cameras while we
were interviewing former Mayor Art Agnos.

While “Lee” might look like he lives on the street, he currently has a
room. The other man, “Ron,” is homeless. When Agnos asked him why he
wasn’t in a room, “Ron” told Agnos, “I tried for a while in North Beach.”

At that point, the former mayor made Ron an offer.

“I’ll take you there, said Agnos. I’ll take you to the diagnostic center.”

And just like that, Ron was in the car with the former mayor and off to
the Mission Neighborhood Resource Center to get a shelter bed or a room
some place.

Those who come to a facility like the center need be ready to play by
the city’s rules.

“You have to do fingerprinting and all this to get an emergency shelter
bed,” said Paul Boden of Western Regional Advocacy Project.

So a lot of people choose not to go into the shelters.

“Well sure, partner,” said a homeless man who gave his name as Richard.
“Come on, man. Have you actually been in some of these places?”

San Francisco’s approach to its homeless problem is made even more
complicated because of the number of agencies involved.

The city manages all of this through at least eight different city
departments, issuing some 400 contracts with at least 75 private
organizations.

“Clearly, we’re not meeting the demands that people have on the
streets,” said Kositsky.

This tangled network of services has no unifying oversight by the city
that hands out most of the funding.

“The one area where we have not done as good a job as we need to is
coordinating all of those systems,” explained Kositsky.

For example: say a homeless man with mental health issues is staying at
non-profit charity, but one day, he voluntarily leaves. He lands in some
trouble, and then the custody of law enforcement, who hand him off to
the psych ward at the hospital, where he’s ultimately discharged.

Now, each one of those three circumstances can be counted as an
acceptable, by-the-book outcome, even though the man is back on the
street and the city has no uniform way of tracking this person as he
ricochets between service providers.

“If you’re a provider, it’s difficult to know what other services that
person or family is receiving,” said Kositsky.

Then there’s another immense challenge facing San Francisco.

Even if it was possible to convince all of the people who need help to
accept it, San Francisco’s best services could not scale to the
overwhelming demand.

“Navigation centers do a good job for those that are there, but the
numbers are so small. We’re talking 60 people here,” said Randy Shaw of
the Tenderloin Housing Clinic. “Come on, we’re talking about a
6,000-person problem. Where is the supply? The actual supply of housing
doesn’t exist to end our homeless problem.”

Former Mayor Agnos agreed that it is an imposing problem.

“As a result, people kind of get discouraged, say ‘Well, it can never be
solved. It’s too big a problem,'” said Agnos.

So the question remains: How does San Francisco start to untangle all of
this with results we can actually see?

“That’s a great question,” said Kositsky. “And really the only way we’re
going to be able to change people’s perception is by making progress.”

*Wilson Walker

*facebook

<https://www.facebook.com/wilsonwalkerIII>
Wilson Walker joined KPIX 5 in July of 2007. His television career
started at WSOC-TV in Charlotte, North Carolina in 1999. There, he
covered the departure of the Charlotte Hornets, The Rae Carruth case,
and the devastating East Coast Ice Storm of...
*More from* Wilson Walker
<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/personality/wilson-walker/>

Comments <#comments>


        One Comment


        Leave a Reply Cancel reply
        <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/06/27/despite-241-million-budget-sf-still-struggles-with-homelessness/#respond>

Enter your comment here...

Please log in using one of these methods to post your comment:

  *

    <#comment-form-load-service:Twitter>
  *

    <#comment-form-load-service:Facebook>
*

Gravatar <https://gravatar.com/site/signup/>	
Email (required) (Address never made public)

Name (required)

Website

Twitter picture

** You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out
<javascript:HighlanderComments.doExternalLogout(%20'twitter'%20);> / Change
<#> )

Facebook photo

** You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out
<javascript:HighlanderComments.doExternalLogout(%20'facebook'%20);> / Change
<#> )

Google+ photo

** You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out
<javascript:HighlanderComments.doExternalLogout(%20'googleplus'%20);> / Change
<#> )

Cancel <javascript:HighlanderComments.cancelExternalWindow();>

Connecting to %s

Notify me of new comments via email.

Notify me of new posts via email.

<#listen-live>

Listen Live

<#listen-live>
Follow Us On
Facebook <http://www.facebook.com/CBSSanFrancisco>Twitter
<http://twitter.com/#!/cbssf>YouTube
<https://www.youtube.com/user/CBSSanFrancisco>TuneIn
<http://tunein.com/radio/KCBS-All-News-740-AM--1069-FM-s67148/>Instagram
<https://www.instagram.com/kpixtv/>
Sign Up for Newsletters
<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/newsletter/signup/>
MORE NEWS

  *
    image
    $100,000 San Francisco Apartment Heist Caught On Camera
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/16/san-francisco-south-of-market-100000-heist-caught-on-camera/?e=ruiZ6veWFgKlLQ>
  *
    image
    Dakota Access Pipeline Protesters Shut Down SF Market Street
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/15/hundreds-march-against-dakota-pipeline-in-san-francisco/?e=ruiZ6veWFgHCDg>
  *
    image
    Post-Election ‘Wall Of Empathy’ Goes Up At BART Stations
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/14/wall-of-empathy-san-francisco-bart-donald-trump-election/?e=ruiZ6veWFgC3Wg>

Powered by CBS

[http://eventful.com/apps/generic/cbs1x1.gif?rand=2513704005889&label=rectest2&disposition=show&testgroup=a&widgettype=more-news]



        More From CBS San Francisco

*Get The New CBS SF Bay Area Local App

*

<http://apps.cbslocal.com/>
*Got Our Weather App?

*

<http://apps.cbslocal.com/weather/san-francisco/>
*Listen to Radio.com Anywhere, Anytime!

*

<http://apps.radio.com/>	

CBS San Francisco

<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>	
Follow Us Facebook

<http://www.facebook.com/CBSSanFrancisco>Twitter

<http://twitter.com/#!/cbssf>YouTube

<https://www.youtube.com/user/CBSSanFrancisco>TuneIn

<http://tunein.com/radio/KCBS-All-News-740-AM--1069-FM-s67148/>Instagram

<https://www.instagram.com/kpixtv/>	

News

  * Business <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/business/>
  * Local <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/local/>
  * Politics <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/politics/>
  * Health <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/health/>
  * Tech <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/tech/>
  * Entertainment
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/entertainment/>

Watch + Listen

  * Heard On
    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/kcbs-all-news-740-am-1069-fm>
  * Seen On
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/watch-listen/seen-on/>
  * Audio on Demand
    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/kcbs-all-news-740-am-1069-fm>
  * Music <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/watch-listen/music/>
  * Only CBS <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/only-cbs/>

Sports

  * Raiders <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/raiders/>
  * SF Giants <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/sf-giants/>
  * Sharks <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/sharks/>
  * Warriors <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/warriors/>
  * STATS
    <http://scoresandstats.sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/gamematchups.aspx>

Eat.See.Play

  * Eat <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/eat-see-play/eat/>
  * See <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/eat-see-play/see/>
  * Play <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/eat-see-play/play/>

Corporate

  * About Us <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/about-us/>
  * Advertise
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/about-us/advertising-basics/>
  * Business Development
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/about-us/business-development/>
  * Contact <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/about-us/contact-us/>
  * Mobile <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/about-us/mobile/>
  * Connect <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/about-us/connect-with-us/>
  * CBS Television Public File
    <http://policies.cbslocal.com/fcc/sanfrancisco.television.html>
  * CBS Radio Public File
    <http://policies.cbslocal.com/fcc/sanfrancisco.radio.html>

CBS San Francisco

<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>
©2016 CBS Local Media, a division of CBS Radio Inc. All rights reserved.
Powered by WordPress.com VIP
<https://vip.wordpress.com/?utm_source=vip_powered_wpcom&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=VIP%20Footer%20Credit>

By viewing our video content, you are accepting the terms of our Video
Services Policy
<http://policies.cbslocal.com/privacy-june-2015/current.html#video-services>

  * Privacy Policy <http://policies.cbslocal.com/privacy/current.html>
  * Terms of Use <http://policies.cbslocal.com/terms-of-use/>
  * Your California Privacy Rights
    <http://policies.cbslocal.com/privacy/current.html#cali-visitors>
  * Mobile User Agreement
    <http://policies.cbslocal.com/mobile-app-agreement/>
  * Ad Choices <http://policies.cbslocal.com/privacy/current.html#onlinead>
  * EEO Reports <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/eeo-reports/>

  *
      o CBS San Francisco

        <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>
      o Customize

        <https://cbssanfran.wordpress.com/wp-admin/customize.php?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcbssanfran.wordpress.com%2F2016%2F06%2F27%2Fdespite-241-million-budget-sf-still-struggles-with-homelessness%2F>
      o Follow

      o Sign Up

        <https://wordpress.com/start/>
      o Log In

        <https://cbssanfran.wordpress.com/wp-login.php?redirect_to=http%3A%2F%2Fsanfrancisco.cbslocal.com%2F2016%2F06%2F27%2Fdespite-241-million-budget-sf-still-struggles-with-homelessness%2F>
      o Copy shortlink

        <http://cbsloc.al/2920nXW>
      o Manage Subscriptions

        <https://subscribe.wordpress.com/>
      o Collapse this bar

:)


      Listen Live


        AM/FM Stations

  *
    KCBS_740
    *KCBS 740 AM*

    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/kcbs-all-news-740-am-1069-fm>
  *
    LIVE_105
    *Live 105*

    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/live-105>
  *
    KFRC
    *106.9 KFRC*

    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/kfrccom-classic-hits>
  *
    997NOW_JAN2016-300x300
    *Now 99.7*

    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/997-now>
  *
    Alice_97-3
    *Alice 97.3*

    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/alice-973>


        Featured Shows & Multimedia

  *
    Play.it Bar
    *Play.It*

    <http://www1.play.it/audio/>
  *
    balt_live_234x132
    *CBS Sports Radio*

    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/cbs-sports-radio>
  *
    always-radioCom
    *Radio.com*

    <http://radio.com/>

Advertise On Our Streams

<https://www.audioadcenter.com/>
<javascript:;><javascript:;>
services
see
