
  Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund <https://seasonofsharing.org/>

Toggle navigation

  * Home

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/>
  * Stories

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/>
  * About the Fund

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/about-the-fund/>
  * For Those in Need

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/for-those-in-need/>
  * Contact Us

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/contact-us/>
  * Donate Now

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/donate-now/>


  Donate

  * Donor Name*
    * Indicates a required field.
  * Company/Organization
  * Donor Address*
    Street Address

    Address Line 2

    City

    State / Province / Region

    ZIP / Postal Code

    Country

  * Phone
  * Email*
    We promise not to share your email, we just need it to send you a
    receipt.
  * You may publish:
      o The amount of my contribution
      o My name 
  * Please list my name as:
    Please note that it may take a week or more for names to appear in
    the San Francisco Chronicle.
  * I wish to designate my contribution:
      o In honor of...
      o In memory of...
  * In honor of:
  * In memory of:
  * Please send an Honor or Memorial Gift Card to:
    Please note that it may take a week or more to send your card.
  * Address for Card
    Street Address

    Address Line 2

    City

    State / Province / Region

    ZIP / Postal Code

    Country

  * This gift is from:
  * What prompted this donation?
      o Season of Sharing Fund Letter
      o SFGate.com
      o San Francisco Chronicle
      o Facebook
      o Email Newsletter or eBlast
      o Season of Sharing Fund Video
      o Friend or Family Member
  o
  *


  * Contribution type*

    If you choose to make your gift recurring, your credit card will be
    charged monthly. You may contact the Season of Sharing Fund to
    change or cancel your recurring donation at any time.
  * Contribution Amount*
  * Credit Card*
    American Express
    Discover
    MasterCard
    Visa
    Card Number

    Expiration Date

     
    Security Code

    Cardholder Name


        SOCIAL SHARE

  * Facebook
    <http://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https://seasonofsharing.org/donate-now/>
  * Twitter
    <http://twitter.com/share?url=https://seasonofsharing.org/donate-now/>
  * linkedin
    <http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https://seasonofsharing.org/donate-now/>

Friend me on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/seasonofsharing?fref=ts>
Follow me on Twitter <https://twitter.com/SoSFund> Watch me on YouTube
<http://www.youtube.com/user/seasonofsharing>


  2016-2017
  CAMPAIGN FUND TOTAL


  $4,778,392

  * Donate by Mail or Fax

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/donate-now/donate-by-mail-or-fax/>
  * Gifts of Stock

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/donate-now/gifts-of-stock/>


  HOW IT WORKS

The Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund provides temporary assistance to
help people living in Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, Napa, San Francisco,
San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano and Sonoma counties.

Over the last 30 years, the Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund has raised
more than $113 million to help individuals and families in need.

In 2015-2016 our fundraising campaign raised a record $8 million for
housing assistance, critical family needs and food banks.

*Learn More...* <https://seasonofsharing.org/about-the-fund/how-we-help/>


  SEARCH OUR SITE

Search for

Search


  DONATION DETAILS

Donations are held in strict confidence. The Chronicle Season of Sharing
Fund will not provide donor information to anyone. Names are published
on this website and in the San Francisco Chronicle only when you give
permission to include your name.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
If you would be more comfortable donating by phone, please call Jennifer
Kirschenbaum at 415-777-7929. The Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund can
process your card over the telephone.

The Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund is a nonprofit charity. No
administrative fees are taken from your contribution. All expenses are
covered by the San Francisco Chronicle and the Evelyn & Walter Haas, Jr.
Fund. Donations can be made at any time during the year and are
distributed throughout the year to Bay Area residents with critical
needs. All contributions are tax deductible.

Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund • PO Box 44740 • San Francisco, CA •
94144 • 415-777-7120 • Email Us
<mailto:JKirschenbaum@sfchronicle.com?subject=Inquiry%20from%20Website>
Website by Spoke <http://www.spokeconsulting.com/> © 2009-2016 Chronicle
Season of Sharing Fund
Terms of Use <https://seasonofsharing.org/terms-of-use/>• Privacy Policy
<https://seasonofsharing.org/privacy-policy/>

