Skip to content

<#main-content>


  Mid-Market News <https://mid-marketnews.com/>


Telling the story of San Francisco's most dynamic neighborhood


Menu

  * Stories From SF’s Most Dynamic Neighborhood

    <https://mid-marketnews.com/about/>

<https://mid-marketnews.com/>
Trending Topics: Uncategorized
<https://mid-marketnews.com/category/uncategorized/>•Arts & Culture
<https://mid-marketnews.com/category/arts-culture/>•Tech
<https://mid-marketnews.com/category/tech/>•Business
<https://mid-marketnews.com/category/business/>•Rising Cost of Living
<https://mid-marketnews.com/category/rising-cost-of-living/>	


  Drugs, Homelessness and Recovery

midmarketnews <https://mid-marketnews.com/author/midmarketnews/> June
29, 2016
<https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/06/29/drugs-homelessness-and-recovery/>
Leave a Comment
<https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/06/29/drugs-homelessness-and-recovery/#respond>



      Stories from the Glide community

| Video by Jennifer Glenfield |

| By Tony Taylor |

It’s really hard to live on the street. It’s a level of difficulty one
cannot imagine, being viewed as a non-person. The temptation to feel
better quickly intensifies with a few dollars in one’s pocket. Drug
addiction in relation to homelessness is a case of the chicken or the
egg and homeless people often get scapegoated as having done this to
themselves.

Many people who lose their job and deplete their savings account go live
with family, but not everyone has that option. That’s the difference
between them and the people who go to Glide Memorial Church in the
Tenderloin for free meals, temporary housing and health services. Being
homeless puts one in such a pit that, once there, it is hard to get out.

Shawn Pride works for Glide and sometimes sleeps in his car to avoid his
tiresome 80-mile commute from Stockton, where he stays temporarily with
family or friends. From his minimum wage paying job, he spends an entire
$400 paycheck on his monthly commute. He is on housing wait-lists, but
he feels the process is taking too long.

“It feels like I just can’t catch a break,” Pride says.

Historically, homelessness is not the problem it is today. After the
Great Depression and World War II, there were 35 years where it was a
different experience. The term “homeless” was not used, but instead
those who lived an alternative, transient lifestyle were called hobos or
tramps. Some worked seasonally, hopping on boxed cars as a means of
transportation to find new work in new towns.

“Homeless” became a more common term in the 1980s by advocates who
wanted people to realize what was happening. It was not that suddenly
1.5 million people started making bad choices and decided just not to
participate. There were real issues like the HIV/AIDS epidemic and
changes in the economy. The drug epidemic and its subsequent jailing of
dealers left many unable to vote, get loans for housing or secure decent
jobs.

Glide Memorial Church offers free meals and temporary housing
opportunities to those in need. Photo by Tony Taylor

Glide Memorial Church offers free meals and temporary housing
opportunities. (Photo by Tony Taylor)

 

At age 27 Pride went to federal prison for selling drugs, and for the 10
years he spent there, he felt like he was in a hole. “Sometimes
conditions play a major factor in stymying someone’s growth,” he says.
“I learned that selling drugs wasn’t for me.”

A chilling fear for Pride is the thought of someone putting drugs into
the hands of his daughter, who lives in Stockton with her mother. “I was
the one selling drugs to their children and it’s crushing how many
families it affects,” he says. “I’ll never do that again because I’m a
better person than that.”

A fellow prison inmate of Pride’s — “the type of gangbanger with tattoos
on his face that you wouldn’t walk up to on the streets” — taught him
algebra. This mathematically astute inmate told him “as long as you put
in the time, I’ll help you.” It was in that moment that Pride realized
his own potential.

The standout moment for Pride came after his prison release. At 37 years
old, he heard someone calling his name as he walked through the
Tenderloin. The call was from his maternal aunt, who had been living on
the streets for 30 years. He felt devastated.

His aunt, who pushed a shopping cart and had a dog, sometimes stayed
with people who were barely hanging on themselves. She was also in an
abusive relationship. He tried to schedule appointments for her to get
help, but she would not go into any building if her belongings had to
remain outside. She told him “I’m not going to this appointment if I
have to leave my dog outside.”

Pride, now 40, says he has recently learned the value of being open to
new possibilities and opportunities. “I would never try to show weakness
before, but now I know that crying is not weak,” he says. “If you’re not
connecting, you’re reverting and I’m trying to find a stable place for
myself emotionally.”

Yolanda Morrissette, once an addict on the street, is an active member
of Glide’s women’s group. (Photo by Tony Taylor)

Yolanda Morrissette, once an addict on the street, is now an active
member of Glide’s women’s group. (Photo by Tony Taylor)

When Yolanda Morrissette first started going to Glide eight years ago
for food and services, she was a substance abuser.

“Addiction is real and homelessness is real,” she says. “I knew I needed
support if I wanted to pull myself out of my addiction, and the women at
Glide never judged me.”

Morrissette grew up a military brat to an abusive father who ran the
house like a boot camp. Her addictions began with alcohol as her family
had a bar where a girlfriend would mix their cocktails. Soon after she
started dabbling in marijuana, which lead to crank before she tried cocaine.

“If you name it, I’ve done it, from snorting heroin to shooting crystal
meth,” she says. “I’ve been homeless on the street because I refused to
stay in a place where I’d wake up with man’s hands touching me.”

For many, homelessness lasts less than a year while chronic homelessness
lasts for three or more years. Many of those who use Glide’s services
are chronically homeless. But much of homelessness is invisibly sleeping
in a motel, a car or couch surfing. The streets are brutal and nothing
is ever really safe, says Morrissette, who has seen people set on fire,
robbed, and stabbed. There are a lot of predators who smile and say,
“You can stay with me.” She was once attacked and raped by a man whom
she had known for three years.

“It happens to the best of us,” she says. “A year later when he passed
me on the street I pulled down my sunglasses to make sure that we made
eye contact. I wanted him to know that he no longer had power over me.”

To protect herself, Morrissette would carry mace and was notorious with
the police for knife possession. Her turning point to sobriety was being
kicked out of her boyfriend’s place and into the rain. She ended up at a
party where someone possibly put drugs in her drink. She says she “went
ballistic” and ended up back out on the street that same night. When she
awoke from her blackout, she decided enough was enough.

The 51-year-old poet is now in her fifth year of recovery and is an
active member of Glide’s women’s group. Morrissette says without Glide
she would have never known about a place where there are women who help
one another without judgment.

“Certain people came into my life at the right time. I can’t say that
for the rest of my people,” she says. “It all happened for a reason. It
was meant for me to get off the streets and get clean. I was clean for a
year before my mother died of cancer in November 2012 and I never looked
back. I continue getting stronger.”

There are a lot of stories Morrisette wants to share, and she plans to
publish those stories about pain, empowerment, and finally learning to
love herself. “I write poems,” she says. “It helps if you can just save
one person by sharing about how good life is now and how powerful people
can be. I do outreach when I can and I lend an ear to sisters who really
want to talk to me and ask me how I continue to do what I do.”

21_MINISTRY

Drugs like heroin continue to be a scourge in the Tenderloin. (Photo by
Kyle Ludowitz)

Benjamin Lintschinger, Glide’s advocacy program manager, believes that
the public learning the diverse stories of people who are homeless has
intrinsic human value.

“I think it’s true to say the homeless population is just as diverse as
any other group,” Lintschinger says. “I find that my conversations,
rather than being about the difficulties of being homeless, are about
people’s friends and children and what really matters to them.
Homelessness does come up, but it is just another part of their life.”

During the economic downturn of the ’80s, employment for someone with a
high school education that could support a family was no longer
available. Affordable housing and mental health care were defunded by
millions of dollars, causing homelessness to disproportionately affect
people of color and low-income families.

Lintschinger, a social worker by profession, suggests that more people
should consider homelessness separate from the issue of addiction. “How
many people use drugs who are not homeless?” he says. “It’s hard because
in our society we are inundated with certain images of homelessness and
it doesn’t give us the opportunity to look past that.”

Morrissette says it takes a long time to clean up from drug addiction.
“It’s not going to be butterflies and glitter,” she says. “That’s not
the reality of it. Some people are very angry at me because I got clean,
but I just wanted my life back.

“Everyone has an issue, some just cover it up better,” she continues.
“From the corporations to the Tenderloin, everybody is dealing with
something. You can’t come to the city and turn your head because
homelessness is all over the place. It’s even in the suburbs. I started
getting high in the suburbs.”

She suggests that the city should convert old warehouses into shelters
as well as offer shelters that welcome homeless people in with their
dogs. She also wants to see more transgender-friendly shelters.

“I would love to see a shelter where women could arrive at any time of
the night because a lot of stuff happens at night and people need a safe
place where they can go,” she says. “If something happens you can run to
that place somehow. Uber can even give one free ride. One free ride can
save a life.”

Morrissette says she has stayed in every San Francisco shelter and in
order for an addict to get their life together, they have to play by the
rules.

“Do what you’re supposed to do and you’ll get all the help you need,
then you can get into your own place like I did,” she says. “There’s
going to be rules everywhere.

She says shelters are safer than the streets where people often resort
to drastic measures protect themselves.

“I’ve heard of homeless women rubbing feces and pee on them just to keep
attackers away, but I don’t think that matters. An attacker is an
attacker and they only care about themselves. I’ve heard of women
carrying Tasers, knives, concealed weapons, all kind of crazy stories,”
she says. “Anything is possible in the Tenderloin. This is a jungle.”

Morrissette currently has a poem hanging in Glide’s Creative
Space. Participants of Glide’s programs have also shared their spirit
animals. Hers? The black panther. “I chose the black panther because she
is a sassy, fiery, powerful woman who speaks her mind, yet is also
vulnerable and hides in the darkness.”

Pride no longer has to drug test for work because Glide sees the change
in him and he can breathe a little bit, which he says is a blessing. He
is attending City College of San Francisco and has signed on to begin
attending San Francisco State University.

“I used to be a gorilla, but I’ve evolved,” he says. “I no longer walk
on my knuckles, but instead I walk upright on my two feet like a man.
And I know this good energy I’m putting out will come back to me, I’m
not worried about that.”


Share this:

  * Click to email (Opens in new window)
    <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/06/29/drugs-homelessness-and-recovery/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/06/29/drugs-homelessness-and-recovery/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
    <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/06/29/drugs-homelessness-and-recovery/?share=reddit&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/06/29/drugs-homelessness-and-recovery/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/06/29/drugs-homelessness-and-recovery/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/06/29/drugs-homelessness-and-recovery/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
    <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/06/29/drugs-homelessness-and-recovery/?share=linkedin&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/06/29/drugs-homelessness-and-recovery/#print>
*


Like this:

Like Loading...


    Published by midmarketnews

We are a hyper-local media outlet run by San Franciscans dedicated to
telling the untold stories of the emerging Mid-Market neighborhood. View
all posts by midmarketnews

<https://mid-marketnews.com/author/midmarketnews/>

Homelessness <https://mid-marketnews.com/category/homelessness/>	


      Social

  * View https://www.facebook.com/Mid-Market-News-SF-452781081536737/’s
    profile on Facebook
    <https://www.facebook.com/https://www.facebook.com/Mid-Market-News-SF-452781081536737//>
  * View @MidMarketNews’s profile on Twitter
    <https://twitter.com/@MidMarketNews/>
  * View midmarketnews’s profile on Instagram
    <https://instagram.com/midmarketnews/>


      Recent Posts

  * Fears of Trump Harming SF’s Sanctuary City Status Draw Locals to
    City Hall
    <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/12/01/fears-of-trump-harming-sfs-sanctuary-city-status-draw-locals-to-city-hall/>

  * Photos: Thanksgiving at St. Anthony’s
    <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/11/24/photos-thanksgiving-at-st-anthonys/>

  * 2 Blocks of Art
    <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/09/19/2-blocks-of-art/>
  * Mid-Market Businesses Promote Jobs for Locals
    <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/08/10/mid-market-businesses-promote-jobs-for-locals/>

  * Who Are the Hottest Bay Area Musicians?
    <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/08/04/who-are-the-hottest-bay-area-musicians/>



      Engage

  * Internships <https://mid-marketnews.com/summer-internships/>
  * Be a tipster <https://mid-marketnews.com/be-a-tipster/>


      Archives

  * December 2016 <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/12/>
  * November 2016 <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/11/>
  * September 2016 <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/09/>
  * August 2016 <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/08/>
  * July 2016 <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/07/>
  * June 2016 <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/06/>
  * May 2016 <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/05/>
  * April 2016 <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/04/>
  * March 2016 <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/03/>
  * February 2016 <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/02/>
  * December 2015 <https://mid-marketnews.com/2015/12/>
  * November 2015 <https://mid-marketnews.com/2015/11/>
  * September 2015 <https://mid-marketnews.com/2015/09/>
  * June 2015 <https://mid-marketnews.com/2015/06/>
  * May 2015 <https://mid-marketnews.com/2015/05/>
  * March 2015 <https://mid-marketnews.com/2015/03/>


Post navigation


          ‹ Older

Homelessness in Mid-Market
<https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/06/27/homelessness-in-mid-market/>


          Newer ›

Tenderloin Sees Uptick in Vandalism
<https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/07/11/tenderloin-sees-uptick-in-vandalism/>


      Leave a Reply
      Cancel reply
      <https://mid-marketnews.com/2016/06/29/drugs-homelessness-and-recovery/#respond>

Enter your comment here...

Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:

  *

    <#comment-form-guest>
  *

    <#comment-form-load-service:WordPress.com>
  *

    <#comment-form-load-service:Twitter>
  *

    <#comment-form-load-service:Facebook>
*

Gravatar <https://gravatar.com/site/signup/>	
Email (required) (Address never made public)

Name (required)

Website

WordPress.com Logo

** You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out
<javascript:HighlanderComments.doExternalLogout(%20'wordpress'%20);> / Change
<#> )

Twitter picture

** You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out
<javascript:HighlanderComments.doExternalLogout(%20'twitter'%20);> / Change
<#> )

Facebook photo

** You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out
<javascript:HighlanderComments.doExternalLogout(%20'facebook'%20);> / Change
<#> )

Google+ photo

** You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out
<javascript:HighlanderComments.doExternalLogout(%20'googleplus'%20);> / Change
<#> )

Cancel <javascript:HighlanderComments.cancelExternalWindow();>

Connecting to %s

Notify me of new comments via email.


      Twitter


      Instagram

The San Francisco community gathered on the steps of City Hall for a
Sanctuary City press conference on Tuesday, November 29. - photo by
Jessica Webb (@she.dwells) #midmarketsf
<https://www.instagram.com/p/BNcj3VuhJ2b/> Police Chief Greg Suhr and
Fire Chief Joanne Hayes-White carve turkeys at St. Anthony's in
preparation for #thanksgiving Wednesday, November 23 - photo by Jess
Webb (@she.dwells) #midmarketsf
<https://www.instagram.com/p/BNNKfQ6BVfH/> Flashback to piano playing at
@2blocksofart_sf in #midmarketsf - photo by Jess Webb (@she.dwells)
<https://www.instagram.com/p/BM9p0OMhbK9/> Thousands of people took to
the streets in #sanfrancisco on Wednesday, Nov. 9, 2016, to protest the
president-elect, Donald #trump - Photo by Jessica Webb (@she.dwells)
#midmarketsf <https://www.instagram.com/p/BM0ioYXh_Vw/> Google rents out
The Old Mint in the SOMA for a private party. #midmarketsf #googleplay
<https://www.instagram.com/p/BMqR6sKh-af/> Daily affirmation.
#midmarketsf #morningjoe #sf <https://www.instagram.com/p/BMCBDlGhCXY/>


      Facebook
      <https://www.facebook.com/Mid-Market-News-SF-452781081536737/>


      Engage

  * Internships <https://mid-marketnews.com/summer-internships/>
  * Be a tipster <https://mid-marketnews.com/be-a-tipster/>

Blog at WordPress.com. <https://wordpress.com/?ref=footer_blog>

  *

    Follow

  *
      o Mid-Market News

        <https://mid-marketnews.com/>
      o Customize

        <https://midmarketnews.wordpress.com/wp-admin/customize.php?url=https%3A%2F%2Fmidmarketnews.wordpress.com%2F2016%2F06%2F29%2Fdrugs-homelessness-and-recovery%2F>
      o Follow

      o Sign Up

        <https://wordpress.com/start/>
      o Log In

        <https://midmarketnews.wordpress.com/wp-login.php?redirect_to=https%3A%2F%2Fmid-marketnews.com%2F2016%2F06%2F29%2Fdrugs-homelessness-and-recovery%2F>
      o Copy shortlink

        <http://wp.me/p5KQMS-7o>
      o Manage Subscriptions

        <https://subscribe.wordpress.com/>
      o Collapse this bar

%d bloggers like this:

Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

:)
