// Menu

  * Home

    <http://www.potreroview.net/>
  * Subscribe

    <http://www.potreroview.net/subscribe/>
  * Advertise

    <http://www.potreroview.net/advertise/>
  * Classifieds

    <http://www.potreroview.net/classifieds/>
  * Archives_//_

    <http://www.potreroview.net/archives>
      o Recent Archives

        <http://www.potreroview.net/archives/>
      o 1970 – 2009 Archives

        <http://www.potreroview.net/archives/1970-2009-archives/>
  * Contact

    <http://www.potreroview.net/contact/>

  *
    /

    / Facebook

    <https://www.facebook.com/The-Potrero-View-215367095174288/>
  *
    /

    / Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/thepotreroview>
  *
    /

    / Google+

    <https://plus.google.com/114104381102310369580/about>
  *
    /

    / Email

    <http://potreroview.net/>
  *
    /

    / Feed

    <http://potreroview.net/?feed=rss2>
  *
    /

    / Search

Go


    Logo <http://www.potreroview.net/>


      Serving the Potrero Hill, Dogpatch, Mission Bay, & SOMA
      neighborhoods since 1970


  Efforts Continue to Address Homelessness in New Ways

Published on July, 2016 in News
<http://www.potreroview.net/category/sections/news/> by Chris Block
<http://www.potreroview.net/author/chris-block/>

Frustration over the City’s inability to effectively address
homelessness, on the part of homeless advocates and Southside San
Francisco residents tired of walking by encampments, remains high. 
However, municipal efforts have helped thousands of people get off the
streets over the past 15 years, and new attempts are emerging to
identify possible ways to progress.

As reported in last month’s /View/ – “What Constitutes a Neighbor: 
Homeless on the Hill” – the City has shifted the location for a proposed
Navigation Center from Warm Water Cove to the end of 25th Street, near
the Muni yard.  The facility would serve as a shelter, but allow people
to bring pets and partners, and store personal possessions.  Navigation
Center clients receive priority to be provided with affordable housing. 
The Port Commission will consider the new site at its July 12 meeting.

On July 1, the City launched the Department of Homelessness and
Supportive Housing, an attempt to significantly improve coordination of
strategies to address homelessness.  The department will house a
divergent array of programs previously dispersed among different
agencies under one roof.  Jeff Kositsky, who led the nonprofit Community
Housing Partnership for almost 10 years, will lead the new department,
with a $165 million budget.

District 11 Supervisor Avalos has proposed a new homeless encampment
policy, currently under review by the City Attorney, modeled after an
ordinance passed in January in Indianapolis, Indiana.  Among other
provisions, the law would require that sidewalks adjacent to homeless
encampments be kept free from obstructions; cleaning of areas where
homeless people are sleeping must occur after 7:00 a.m. and before 10
p.m.; and the City would have to provide a camp with more than 30 people
in a 150-foot radius adequate bathroom and garbage services.

In addition, when a camp is relocated, the City would have to solicit
input from the residents on planned relocation; inform residential and
business neighbors, as well as camp residents, of impending plans; and
identify permanent housing that doesn’t displace current residents, or
provide temporary housing that doesn’t displace currently homeless
people and a transition plan for permanent units within a reasonable
time period.

“John’s goal isn’t to legalize tents. It’s to make sure we have a
responsible, humane, and constitutional way for addressing encampments,
and to minimize their impacts on neighborhoods while the City works on
relocation,” said Jeremy Pollock, Avalos’ legislative assistant.

This month a collaboration of more than 70 media outlets – including the
/View/ – will launch the Homeless Media Project, pooling reporting, data
analysis, photojournalism, video, websites and other resources to
publish, broadcast and share a series of stories across all the outlets.

  * Facebook

  * Twitter

  * Google

  * Pinterest

    <javascript:void((function()%7Bvar%20e=document.createElement('script');e.setAttribute('type','text/javascript');e.setAttribute('charset','UTF-8');e.setAttribute('src','http://assets.pinterest.com/js/pinmarklet.js?r='+Math.random()*99999999);document.body.appendChild(e)%7D)());>

//


      Advertisement

Subscribe-AD-web2.jpg <http://www.potreroview.net/subscribe/>


      Archives

  * November 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/11/>
  * October 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/10/>
  * September 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/09/>
  * August 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/08/>
  * July 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/07/>
  * June 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/06/>
  * May 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/05/>
  * April 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/04/>
  * March 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/03/>
  * February 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/02/>
  * January 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/01/>
  * December 2015 <http://www.potreroview.net/2015/12/>
  * November 2015 <http://www.potreroview.net/2015/11/>
  * October 2015 <http://www.potreroview.net/2015/10/>
  * September 2015 <http://www.potreroview.net/2015/09/>
  * August 2015 <http://www.potreroview.net/2015/08/>
  * July 2015 <http://www.potreroview.net/2015/07/>
  * June 2015 <http://www.potreroview.net/2015/06/>
  * May 2015 <http://www.potreroview.net/2015/05/>
  * April 2015 <http://www.potreroview.net/2015/04/>
  * March 2015 <http://www.potreroview.net/2015/03/>
  * April 2008 <http://www.potreroview.net/2008/04/>


      Categories

  * Announcements
    <http://www.potreroview.net/category/sections/announcements/>
  * Arts Calendar
    <http://www.potreroview.net/category/ongoing-features/arts-calendar/>
  * Community Calendar
    <http://www.potreroview.net/category/ongoing-features/community-calendar/>

  * Crime & Safety
    <http://www.potreroview.net/category/ongoing-features/crime-safety/>
  * Development <http://www.potreroview.net/category/sections/development/>
  * Editorial <http://www.potreroview.net/category/sections/editorial/>
  * Events <http://www.potreroview.net/category/sections/events/>
  * Features <http://www.potreroview.net/category/sections/features/>
  * Fiction <http://www.potreroview.net/category/sections/fiction/>
  * Get A Job
    <http://www.potreroview.net/category/ongoing-features/get-a-job/>
  * Letters <http://www.potreroview.net/category/ongoing-features/letters/>
  * Library News
    <http://www.potreroview.net/category/ongoing-features/library-news/>
  * News <http://www.potreroview.net/category/sections/news/>
  * News from the South Side
    <http://www.potreroview.net/category/news-from-the-south-side/>
  * Ongoing Features
    <http://www.potreroview.net/category/ongoing-features/>
  * Publisher's View
    <http://www.potreroview.net/category/ongoing-features/publishers-view/>
  * Reviews <http://www.potreroview.net/category/sections/reviews/>
  * Short Cuts
    <http://www.potreroview.net/category/ongoing-features/short-cuts/>
  * Uncategorized <http://www.potreroview.net/category/uncategorized/>


      Recent Posts

  * Trans Bay Cable Pumps Pittsburg Power into San Francisco
    <http://www.potreroview.net/trans-bay-cable-pumps-pittsburg-power-into-san-francisco/>

  * ‘Bottle Bill’ Author Says Recycling Law Hurts Small Businesses
    <http://www.potreroview.net/bottle-bill-author-says-recycling-law-hurts-small-businesses/>

  * Short Cuts <http://www.potreroview.net/short-cuts-16/>
  * We Must Reinvest for a Safe and Reliable BART
    <http://www.potreroview.net/we-must-reinvest-for-a-safe-and-reliable-bart/>

  * Why San Franciso Has a Homeless Problem
    <http://www.potreroview.net/why-san-franciso-has-a-homeless-problem/>
  * California College of the Arts Student Housing Approved
    <http://www.potreroview.net/california-college-of-the-arts-student-housing-approved/>

  * Data Provide Insight into Progress with Homelessness
    <http://www.potreroview.net/data-provide-insight-into-progress-with-homelessness/>

  * View Election Recommendations
    <http://www.potreroview.net/view-election-recommendations-4/>
  * At Rock Band Land, Kids Learn to Love the Process
    <http://www.potreroview.net/at-rock-band-land-kids-learn-to-love-the-process/>

  * BAE Systems Operates Largest West Coast Dry Dock at Pier 70
    <http://www.potreroview.net/bae-systems-operates-largest-west-coast-dry-dock-at-pier-70/>

  * Potrero Power Plant Site to be Developed by New Owners
    <http://www.potreroview.net/potrero-power-plant-site-to-be-developed-by-new-owners/>

  * Christopher’s Books celebrates 25th anniversary
    <http://www.potreroview.net/christophers-books-celebrates-25th-anniversary/>

  * Betty Packard Simplifies the Ballot, and Much More
    <http://www.potreroview.net/betty-packard-simplifies-the-ballot-and-much-more/>

  * Crime, Arrest and Conviction Trends Shift; Causes Remain Elusive
    <http://www.potreroview.net/crime-arrest-and-conviction-trends-shift-causes-remain-elusive/>

  * Book Review: Altamont by Joel Selvin
    <http://www.potreroview.net/book-review-altamont-by-joel-selvin/>
  * Community Calendar, November
    <http://www.potreroview.net/community-calendar-november/>
  * Carpet Chronicles VII
    <http://www.potreroview.net/carpet-chronicles-vii/>
  * Gold, Chapter Sixteen
    <http://www.potreroview.net/gold-chapter-sixteen/>
  * Enola Maxwell Likely to Continue as School Site
    <http://www.potreroview.net/enola-maxwell-likely-to-continue-as-school-site/>

  * Products Locked Up at Potrero Center Safeway, as City Battles
    Property Crime
    <http://www.potreroview.net/products-locked-up-at-potrero-center-safeway-as-city-battles-property-crime/>



Post navigation

//Previous Story Previous post: Recycling Requirements Continue to
Threaten Good Life Grocery
<http://www.potreroview.net/recycling-requirements-continue-to-threaten-good-life-grocery/>
Next Story// Next post: Dogpatch Business Association Debuts
<http://www.potreroview.net/dogpatch-business-association-debuts/>


      Latest from News

Placeholder
/

/
<http://www.potreroview.net/trans-bay-cable-pumps-pittsburg-power-into-san-francisco/>


November, 2016


      Trans Bay Cable Pumps Pittsburg Power into San Francisco
      <http://www.potreroview.net/trans-bay-cable-pumps-pittsburg-power-into-san-francisco/>

In 1998, a construction crew error disrupted a Pacific Gas and Electric

Placeholder
/

/
<http://www.potreroview.net/bottle-bill-author-says-recycling-law-hurts-small-businesses/>


November, 2016


      ‘Bottle Bill’ Author Says Recycling Law Hurts Small Businesses
      <http://www.potreroview.net/bottle-bill-author-says-recycling-law-hurts-small-businesses/>

As reported by the View last July in “Recycling Requirements Continue to
Threaten

Placeholder
/

/
<http://www.potreroview.net/california-college-of-the-arts-student-housing-approved/>


November, 2016


      California College of the Arts Student Housing Approved
      <http://www.potreroview.net/california-college-of-the-arts-student-housing-approved/>

Last month, the San Francisco Planning Commission voted seven to zero to

Placeholder
/

/
<http://www.potreroview.net/data-provide-insight-into-progress-with-homelessness/>


November, 2016


      Data Provide Insight into Progress with Homelessness
      <http://www.potreroview.net/data-provide-insight-into-progress-with-homelessness/>

In a series of articles this year, the View reported that the

Placeholder
/

/ <http://www.potreroview.net/view-election-recommendations-4/>

November, 2016


      View Election Recommendations
      <http://www.potreroview.net/view-election-recommendations-4/>

Candidates President and Vice President:  Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine
United States

  * // Facebook

    <https://www.facebook.com/The-Potrero-View-215367095174288/>
  * // Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/thepotreroview>
  * // Google+

    <https://plus.google.com/114104381102310369580/about>
  * // Email

    <http://potreroview.net/>
  * // Feed

    <http://potreroview.net/?feed=rss2>

/

/

All rights reserved. Copyright © 2015 The Potrero View.

Go to Top

