Renaissance Journalism

<http://renjournalism.org/>
<http://twitter.com/#!/rjcmedia>
<https://www.facebook.com/renaissancejounalismcenter>
<http://www.youtube.com/renprojectsf>
<http://www.flickr.com/photos/rjcmedia/> Login
<http://renjournalism.org/wp-admin>

  * About Us

    <#>
      o Our Purpose

        <http://renjournalism.org/about/>
      o Our Team

        <http://renjournalism.org/about/staff/>
      o Our Funders

        <http://renjournalism.org/about/partners/>
  * Our Work

    <#>
      o Equity Reporting Project

        <http://renjournalism.org/our-work/erp/>
      o Michigan Reporting Project

        <http://renjournalism.org/our-work/michigan-reporting-project/>
      o Imperial Valley Youth Voices

        <http://renjournalism.org/the-imperial-valley-youth-voices-project/>
      o LearningLAB

        <http://renjournalism.org/our-work/learninglab/>
          + LearningLAB

            <http://renjournalism.org/our-work/learninglab/>
              # LearningLAB 2013 Conference

                <http://renjournalism.org/learninglab-2013-conference/>
          + LearningLAB 2013 Conference

            <http://renjournalism.org/learninglab-2013-conference/>
      o Purpose & Passion Retreats

        <http://renjournalism.org/storytelling-retreats/>
      o Vietnam Reporting Project

        <http://renjournalism.org/our-work/vietnam-reporting-project/>
      o Milestones

        <http://renjournalism.org/milestones/>
  * News & Events

    <http://renjournalism.org/news-events/>
  * Blog

    <http://renjournalism.org/blog/>
  * Resources

    <http://renjournalism.org/resources/>
  * Contact Us

    <http://renjournalism.org/contact/>

<http://renjournalism.org/>

  * About Us

    <#>
      o Our Purpose

        <http://renjournalism.org/about/>
      o Our Team

        <http://renjournalism.org/about/staff/>
      o Our Funders

        <http://renjournalism.org/about/partners/>
  * Our Work

    <#>
      o Equity Reporting Project

        <http://renjournalism.org/our-work/erp/>
      o Michigan Reporting Project

        <http://renjournalism.org/our-work/michigan-reporting-project/>
      o Imperial Valley Youth Voices

        <http://renjournalism.org/the-imperial-valley-youth-voices-project/>
      o LearningLAB

        <http://renjournalism.org/our-work/learninglab/>
          + LearningLAB

            <http://renjournalism.org/our-work/learninglab/>
              # LearningLAB 2013 Conference

                <http://renjournalism.org/learninglab-2013-conference/>
          + LearningLAB 2013 Conference

            <http://renjournalism.org/learninglab-2013-conference/>
      o Purpose & Passion Retreats

        <http://renjournalism.org/storytelling-retreats/>
      o Vietnam Reporting Project

        <http://renjournalism.org/our-work/vietnam-reporting-project/>
      o Milestones

        <http://renjournalism.org/milestones/>
  * News & Events

    <http://renjournalism.org/news-events/>
  * Blog

    <http://renjournalism.org/blog/>
  * Resources

    <http://renjournalism.org/resources/>
  * Contact Us

    <http://renjournalism.org/contact/>


  Experts urge deep understanding of homelessness issues

Jun 28, 2016

*By Jon Funabiki*

Today’s homelessness crisis can be traced back to the 1970s when the
federal government cut housing projects and welfare programs at the same
time that jobs in manufacturing industries vanished, leaving people to
“live or die on the streets” of cities like San Francisco.

“Homelessness is a relatively new phenomenon that has not always
existed,” said Stacey Murphy, research director for the California
Housing Partnership Corporation. “It is not an inevitable feature of the
American landscape. It emerged in the late 1970s and ‘80s as the product
of very specific socio-economic and policy shifts.”

This was one of the big lessons offered by experts during an all-day
briefing about homelessness issues organized by Renaissance Journalism
and the Lab for Community and Media for Bay Area journalists. The event
was held June 10 at the Mechanics Institute in San Francisco as part of
the SF Homeless Project <https://sfhomelessproject.com/>, an ambitious
campaign by local news media outlets. Under the plan, participating news
agencies have pledged to jointly focus attention on the Bay Area’s
homelessness crisis in hopes of stimulating action by government
agencies, nonprofit groups and others. Their stories will be published
or broadcast on and around June 29.

The briefing was organized by Venise Wagner and Laura Moorhead of the
San Francisco State University Journalism Department. They have been
working with Renaissance Journalism to try to stimulate improved news
coverage of the issues faced by vulnerable communities
<http://journalism.sfsu.edu/events/3466> – people of color, immigrants
and the poor—who live in the region.

We asked Murphy and 20 other government officials, nonprofit leaders and
health leaders to explain the root causes and systemic issues that have
contributed to the crisis, the needs of the people who are homeless and
the actions that can potentially alleviate the situation. The
journalists were told:

  * The news media should report not just the flashpoints that create
    headlines, but the deeper issues that contribute to the crisis.
  * There is a greater need for more supportive housing programs, which
    provide both shelter and services, and increased coordination among
    government agencies and service providers.
  * The population of those who are homeless is aging—many are 50 years
    or older—and that African Americans and people of color are
    disproportionately affected.
  * Cities are increasingly adopting laws—such as those that ban sitting
    or resting on sidewalks— that essentially criminalize people who are
    homeless.

The speakers also asked journalists and the public to offer compassion
to people living on the streets.

“We often hear people speaking in a voice that’s completely lacking in
compassion … talking about people who are homeless like they are less
than, somehow. That I find disturbing and it makes me deeply sad,” said
Jeff Kositsky, executive director of San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee’s newly
created department of homelessness. “Look somebody in the face and smile
at them. Show some radical compassion for the people who are brothers
and sisters and sons and daughters who are on the street.”

About 50 journalists attended the briefing, and another 90 were able to
view the proceedings on the web thanks to the ITVS OVEE streaming
system. Recordings of the proceedings are now available on YouTube:

Part 1 – Housing

https://youtu.be/pO-Ymj4qk-E

Part 2 – Government & Rights

https://youtu.be/qjjkSqaeKzU

Part 3 – Public Health

https://youtu.be/gB_ne1J3nDw

Part 4 – Solutions Journalism

https://youtu.be/xgwcv8bPsiQ


    Subscribe

Sign up for our mailing list to receive updates

  * *
  * *

Subscribe <#>


    Recent Tweets

Follow Us: @rjcmedia <https://twitter.com/rjcmedia>

  *
    2 weeks ago

    .@Emily_DeRuy <http://twitter.com/Emily_DeRuy> & @TheAtlantic
    <http://twitter.com/TheAtlantic> on how teachers are trying to
    foster respectful dialogue in classrooms post election.
    https://t.co/IB83w9B1pU
  *
    2 weeks ago

    .@Emily_DeRuy <http://twitter.com/Emily_DeRuy> discusses on @KQED
    <http://twitter.com/KQED> how students are grappling with
    post-election anxiety and conflict. #election
    <http://twitter.com/search?q=%23election> https://t.co/JCfWtzEV5x


    Contact Us

Email: info@renjournalism.org <mailto:info@renjournalism.org>

Send Us A Message <http://renjournalism.org/contact>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
<http://twitter.com/#!/rjcmedia>
<https://www.facebook.com/renaissancejounalismcenter>
<http://www.youtube.com/renprojectsf>
<http://www.flickr.com/photos/rjcmedia/> Sitemap
<http://renjournalism.org/sitemap/> Privacy Policy
<http://renjournalism.org/privacy-policy/> Login
<http://renjournalism.org/wp-admin>

Renaissance Journalism © 2016
Web design and development by Computer Courage
<http://www.computercourage.com/web-development/>

