KQED Menu

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Menu

    <#>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs & Blogs

        <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Special Coverage

        <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs <#> Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California


  KQED News <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

Search

<#search-container>


  KQED News Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Search for:

News Fix <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>


  Experience Life on the Streets of San Francisco [360 Video]

The view from inside of Jackie Jaurez's tent. (/Melissa Bosworth/KQED/)

By Lakshmi Sarah and Melissa Bosworth
June 28, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/experience-life-on-the-streets-of-san-francisco-360-video/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/experience-life-on-the-streets-of-san-francisco-360-video/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/experience-life-on-the-streets-of-san-francisco-360-video/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/experience-life-on-the-streets-of-san-francisco-360-video/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/experience-life-on-the-streets-of-san-francisco-360-video/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/experience-life-on-the-streets-of-san-francisco-360-video/?share=email&nb=1>
*

/(For mobile viewing, open this video in your YouTube app
<https://youtu.be/Cr_Y3ZGSwfE>.)/

There are more than 6,000 homeless people in San Francisco,  according
to a 2015 report,
<http://www.sfmayor.org/modules/showdocument.aspx?documentid=455> and
each person has a different story.

Cheryl Iversen, who goes by Tygrr, has been homeless since the 1990s.
Jackie Juarez and her fiancé, Gustavo Rios, have been living in a tent
in the Mission District for about two months.


      How to View 360 Videos

<https://youtu.be/ltH0FyoI4Gg>

  * For desktop viewing, the latest versions of the following browsers
    support 360 video:*Chrome, Firefox and Internet Explorer*. Click and
    drag to navigate around the frame.
  * For iOS or Android mobile viewing, *open the video directly in your
    YouTube app*: https://youtu.be/Cr_Y3ZGSwfE. Move your phone around
    or use your finger to navigate.
  * To use Google cardboard with your smartphone, click the cardboard
    icon in the bottom right within the YouTube app.

Originally from Castro Valley, Iversen ran away from home at the age of
12 and hasn’t been back since.

“Homeless people are people who are down on their luck,” Iversen says.
“Then there’s girls like me, who were really seriously physically and
sexually abused as children.” She is currently living near Indiana
Street and Islais Creek Channel, but she’s planning to move shortly
because she expects an influx of people to the area when the temporary
Pier 80 shelter closes
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/03/04/a-visit-to-pier-80-s-f-s-temporary-homeless-shelter-in-remote-corner-of-city>
July 1.

Unlike Iversen, Juarez and Rios have been homeless for only a few
months. The two were staying with relatives, but after a family fight
they were asked to leave. During their first few weeks on the street,
Juarez and Rios went to get TB tests (a prerequisite for access to
drop-in centers offering showers). While they were gone, the couple say,
the police took their belongings. “We lost everything,” Juarez says,
including medicine and photos from her father, who passed away a few
years ago.

‘Every day we tell each other that we’ve got to make it through, and be
strong for each other.’
Jackie Juarez

Juarez receives about $900 a month from Social Security insurance
because of a chronic lung condition. However, after paying for phone
service, food, storage and other basic needs, she isn’t able to afford
the deposit for a place to rent. Juarez and Rios have been living in a
tent near the U-Haul facility at Alameda and Bryant streets for the last
several weeks.

Rios does short-term jobs when possible, like helping to move furniture
and to unload the trucks that come to U-Haul, but he worries when he
leaves Juarez alone. “Even in daytime, lots of stuff happens around
here,” he says.

“I feel like giving up,” Juarez says. “Every day we tell each other that
we’ve got to make it through, and be strong for each other.”

Iversen, who is 48, says she doesn’t think or hope much about the
future, but she’s considering going indoors this winter. “My bones are
getting a little bit old to be so close to this concrete every night,”
she says.

*Homelessness is a complex issue. Learn more >>
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>*

sfproject3 <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>

Explore: Housing <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>, News
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/news/>, homelessness
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/homelessness/>, video
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/video/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/experience-life-on-the-streets-of-san-francisco-360-video/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/experience-life-on-the-streets-of-san-francisco-360-video/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/experience-life-on-the-streets-of-san-francisco-360-video/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/experience-life-on-the-streets-of-san-francisco-360-video/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/experience-life-on-the-streets-of-san-francisco-360-video/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/experience-life-on-the-streets-of-san-francisco-360-video/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

0 Comments
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/experience-life-on-the-streets-of-san-francisco-360-video/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related

Efforts Continue to Clear Homeless Encampments in the Mission

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/10/07/efforts-continue-to-clear-homeless-encampments-in-the-mission/>

Major Flaw In Android Phones Would Let Hackers In With Just A Text

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2015/07/27/major-flaw-in-android-phones-would-let-hackers-in-with-just-a-text>

Mobile Restrooms Offer Solution for Lower Polk’s Homeless Community

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/07/20/mobile-bathrooms-offer-solution-for-lower-polks-homeless-community>

What Happens to San Francisco's Recycling Once It Leaves the Curb?

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/01/05/what-happens-to-san-franciscos-recycling-once-it-leaves-the-curb>

Berkeley Passes Residential Smoking Ban -- and Takes Steps to Enforce It

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2013/12/06/berkeley-approves-smoking-ban>

Pilot Fire Grows to 7 Square Miles, Some Evacuations Ordered

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/08/08/pilot-fire-grows-to-7-square-miles-some-evacuations-ordered/>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>


  Post navigation

Prev Homelessness: You've Got Questions, We've Got Answers

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/homelessness-youve-got-questions-weve-got-answers/>
Next Start the Conversation: What Are Your Ideas For Addressing
Homelessness?

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/24/start-the-conversation-what-are-your-ideas-for-addressing-homelessness/>



  About KQED

  * About <http://www.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://www.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://www.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://www.kqed.org/about/help/index.jsp>


  Follow KQED News

  * Follow Us on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KQEDnews>
  * Follow Us on Twitter <https://twitter.com/kqednews>
  * Connect on Instagram <http://instagram.com/kqednews>
  * Connect on Google+ <https://plus.google.com/117185877001714843452/posts>
  * Connect on YouTube <https://www.youtube.com/user/KQEDnews>

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

[blank image]
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil


  Get the facts!

Close

:)
