<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/> Beyond Homelessness

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>
//
<https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Ffaces-of-the-streets%2F&text=Faces%20of%20homelessness%3A%20Portraits%20of%20life%20on%20SF%27s%20streets.&hashtags=SFHomelessProject>
// <#>
//
<mailto:?subject=Faces%20of%20homelessness%20in%20San%20Francisco&body=SF%20Homeless%20Project%3A%20These%20portraits%20provide%20glimpses%20into%20the%20lives%20of%2012%20people%20whose%20experiences%20help%20tell%20the%20story%20of%20the%20streets.%0A%0Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Ffaces-of-the-streets%2F>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
Beyond Homelessness <http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>
//
<https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Ffaces-of-the-streets%2F&text=Faces%20of%20homelessness%3A%20Portraits%20of%20life%20on%20SF%27s%20streets.&hashtags=SFHomelessProject>
// <#>
//
<mailto:?subject=Faces%20of%20homelessness%20in%20San%20Francisco&body=SF%20Homeless%20Project%3A%20These%20portraits%20provide%20glimpses%20into%20the%20lives%20of%2012%20people%20whose%20experiences%20help%20tell%20the%20story%20of%20the%20streets.%0A%0Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Ffaces-of-the-streets%2F>


  Portraits of life on SF's streets

These portraits provide glimpses into the lives of 12 people whose
experiences help tell the story of the streets.

Photos by Lea Suzuki

June 28, 2016

  *
  *
  *
  *
  *
  *
  *
  *
  *
  *
  *
  *


    Deanna Daly

The little things are a challenge when you live on the streets. There’s
no microwave or stove; no refrigerator; no washer and dryer; no escape
from the noise. And, of course, there’s no bathroom. It’s hard to find a
job — especially without a car or identification — two things that
Deanna Daly, 31, doesn’t have. “There’s a lot of things you have to do
to survive. Every little thing is like work.”

Close <#>Next <#>


    John White

John White (left) moved to Division Street with Ariel Young (right) in
April, when only a few people were camping there. White, 51, says it got
a little crowded and then thinned out, but now there’s no space on the
sidewalk. Young is pregnant, and the two are trying to find a place to live.

Close <#>Previous <#>Next <#>


    David Tompkins

The temporary homeless shelter at Pier 80 was a place for David Tompkins
to find himself again. “People say I’m changing, but I’m not really
changing. When you’re out there, you become something you’re not,” says
Tompkins, 56. “I’m becoming me again.” The shelter allowed him to bring
his dog, provided him access to a clinic and a place to sleep, and
helped him get the care that he needed.

Close <#>Previous <#>Next <#>


    Christine Boyer

“People around here are great,” says Christine Boyer, 52. “They are very
forgiving, and they help us every day — I mean every day. It’s just a
normal living. Even though we don’t live in a house, it still feels more
normal than it did” when her family was at an encampment on Potrero
Avenue and Cesar Chavez Street. Her family now stays in the Financial
District. “I keep a sign on our cart that says we’re a homeless family
with a disabled son and that we need food and blankets and clothing and
stuff, and there’s always little surprise gift bags outside our cart
when we get up in the mornings. Sometimes shoes, sometimes blankets,
clothes — most of the time food. And there’s always at least one person
a day that comes by and drops off a $20 bill.”

Close <#>Previous <#>Next <#>


    Donald Abel

“I decided I'm not going to die in the streets. I'm going to trust in
the system and give Pier 80 a try,” said Donald Abel, 60. Pier 80 is a
temporary homeless shelter that the city set up in February. It allows
people to stay with their partners, pets and belongings, and case
managers visit residents daily. The shelter is expected to close July 1.

Close <#>Previous <#>Next <#>


    Erik Otten

Erik Otten lost his job, his family, his home. “I was stripped of
everything, and I was spit out into being homeless.” That’s how he found
St. Anthony’s, a social services organization that helps the poor. He
arrived there alone, struggling with sobriety. He recalls standing in
line at St. Anthony’s Dining Room in the Tenderloin and seeing a woman
carrying a Winnie the Pooh stuffed animal. “I remember staring at the
animal like, ‘Damn, what happened, man?’ I missed my wife; she was my
best friend. I loved my job, I lost it. ... Loved my family, lost that.
Had a house, lost.” Nearly five years later — and now an employee at St.
Anthony’s — he saw the same woman in line. “I just got the chills, like
God ran through me, like, ‘Yeah, you’re on the other side.’”

Close <#>Previous <#>Next <#>


    Alberto Terrell

“It’s difficult being homeless,” says Alberto Terrell, 55. “I have
medical problems and I needed a new pair of shoes, and that is the
honest-to-God truth. It’s hard, but you know what, if you try to at
least go to some of the places that will help you, you feel a little
better. ... It’s good because I have a quarter of a bone missing in my
leg, so new shoes help me balance because I have a lift in my left leg.
It will be very helpful, and I really appreciate it.”

Close <#>Previous <#>Next <#>


    Ashley Moore-Motte

As a nurse, Ashley Moore-Motte, 32, would work with patients for 12
hours and never see them again. But she wanted more. She wanted to know
her patients and understand the challenges they faced. Moore-Motte is a
primary-care nurse for UCSF and works at Rene Cazenave Apartments, which
provides supportive services for the formerly chronically homeless.
“With a place like this, I get to make connections with people over
time: see them grow, see them fall, and really be a part of a family,”
she says. “Having stable food, clothing and shelter makes it so that you
can start to actually pay attention to your health and your well-being.”

Close <#>Previous <#>Next <#>


    Annice Jacoby

Annice Jacoby was walking down Mission Street on a gorgeous day, and
sprawled on the sidewalk was a man, passed out and surrounded by broken
glass. “I was horrified that he was going to roll over and cut himself,
and there were dozens of people just walking around him and that was so
disturbing. I picked up the glass and I had this thought that I wanted
him under cover. I wanted him protected,” she said. That’s how she came
up with the idea of Undercover, which provides blankets to people on the
streets with messages that call attention to homelessness. “This is
something that we can fix. The opportunity and the challenge is to the
whole city to use our creativity and ingenuity to address this, not in
10-year plans but immediately,” Jacoby said.

Close <#>Previous <#>Next <#>


    Jose Bernal

Housing is often the missing link for Jose Bernal’s clients. Bernal, 28,
is a program manager at Hospitality House. “I’ve connected people with
medical services, therapy services, but when it comes to housing, it’s
just — it’s tough. What we do is we help them fill out applications, but
essentially most of the time they’re getting put onto wait lists that
are three years, five years, and when their name finally comes up,
they’re still competing with other people. It breaks my heart. It really
does.”

Close <#>Previous <#>Next <#>


    Tony Roberson

“I’ve never seen as many tent cities up under the freeways, out at the
park,” says Tony Roberson, who is 63 and became homeless two years ago.
He was priced out of his home and sees firsthand the struggles of being
homeless. “You got people that are mentally disturbed,” he says. “They
don’t have an advocate to speak for them, and they get frustrated and
just say, ‘The hell with it,’ and they just go to the streets and that’s
really sad. ... Can I see San Francisco getting any better as far as the
homeless? I hope and pray. That’s all I can do. There’s a lot of things
in the city that need to be fixed, but you got to do them one at a time.”

Close <#>Previous <#>Next <#>


    Deanna Daly, 31

With her 34-year-old son, David, Dawn Towner had been living on the
streets for a year when a Homeless Outreach Team found them at Florida
and Treat streets and made them an offer they couldn’t pass up: come to
the Navigation Center, where they could not only have a place to sleep
but also work with case managers. Towner, 54, and her son nearly missed
their ride to the center in the Mission District, but they made it. “I
had to keep pinching myself because I thought that was the best that it
was ever going to get,” she says. “I was so accepting the fact that I
was going to be on the street the rest of my life, and I still can’t
believe that we’re here.”

Close <#>Previous <#>Next <#>


    Dawn Towner

With her son, David, 34, Towner had been living on the streets for a
year when a Homeless Outreach Team found them at Florida and Treat
streets and made them an offer they couldn’t pass up: Come to the
Navigation Center, where they could not only have a place to sleep but
also work with case managers. Towner, 54, and her son nearly missed
their ride to the center in the Mission District, but made it. “I had to
keep pinching myself because I thought that was the best that it was
ever going to get again,” she says. “I was so accepting the fact that I
was going to be on the street the rest of my life, and I still can’t
believe that we’re here.”

Close <#>Previous <#>
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Photographer

Lea Suzuki • lsuzuki@sfchronicle.com <mailto:lsuzuki@sfchronicle.com> •
@Lea_Suzuki <https://twitter.com/Lea_Suzuki>

Interactive producers

Lucio Villa • lvilla@sfchronicle.com <mailto:lvilla@sfchronicle.com> •
@luciovilla <https://twitter.com/luciovilla>
Benjamin Din • bdin@sfchronicle.com <mailto:bdin@sfchronicle.com> •
@benjamindin <https://twitter.com/benjamindin>
Emma O'Neill • eoneill@sfchronicle.com <mailto:eoneill@sfchronicle.com>
• @emmaruthoneill <https://twitter.com/emmaruthoneill>
------------------------------------------------------------------------


        Editorial: SF's homeless problem a civic disgrace

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/civic-disgrace>


        Solution starts with supportive housing

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/supportive-housing>


        The mentally ill: Streets' costliest residents

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/mental-health>


        Can the shelter system be successful?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/shelters>


        Can law enforcement curb the crisis?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/encampments>


        A problem that looks the same as it did 20 years ago

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/overview>


        How many people live on our streets?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/numbers>


        In their words: How SF's last 5 mayors tackled homelessness

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/letters-from-the-mayors>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>


    The sign in service is not functioning right now.


    Please try again in a few minutes

If the issues continue, please contact our customer service at

Phone:

Email:


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in


Don't have a profile?


            Don't have a subscription?

Sign up Subscribe

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a profile using


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password
Send me email offers

Already have a profile? Sign In

By clicking "Next" or signing in you confirm that you accept our Terms
and Conditions <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and have read
and understood our Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in


          Hi,


          You are signed in

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>

Maintain your delivery address, payment details and place a vacation
hold in Subscriber Portal.

MANAGE SUBSCRIPTION

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/account/>

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>
SUBSCRIBE

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>
SIGN OUT

<javascript:void(0)>


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our
Terms of Service <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy
Policy <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign In

Keep me signed in
Show password Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Paid Subscription Access Only

You are now signed in but you must have a San Francisco Chronicle
subscription to access any content.

Already have a subscription?

ACTIVATE

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Ffaces-of-the-streets%2F>


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          About Me

DISPLAY NAMEDisplay names must begin with an alpha-numeric character.
They can not contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor
may they contain obscenities.

This display name is already in use. Please enter a different display name.

You must enter a display name.

Display names must begin with an alpha-numeric character. They can not
contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor may they
contain obscenities.

EMAIL ADDRESSChanging this email address will also change the email
address associated with your subscription

You must enter an email address.

GENDERThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

BIRTH YEARThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

* are required fields


          SF Chronicle Subscription

You can manage your delivery address, payment details, delete your
account and more subscription details in the subscriber portal.

Manage Subscription

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/account/>


            Get it on all your devices


    Unlimited digital access with every subscription

SFChronicle.com | App for iPhone and iPad
e-edition (daily print replica) | Exclusive member experiences and discounts

SUBSCRIBE NOW AND SAVE!

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/> I have a subscription

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Ffaces-of-the-streets%2F>


          Password

EDIT

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.


          Password

CANCEL

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.

CURRENT PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Current password is incorrect

Current password field is required

NEW PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain both
upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

New password field is required

CONFIRM PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Confirm password field is required

Show password


    Welcome, !

Your profile, subscription, linked accounts, and newsletter selections
are not viewable by other readers on our sites. Your profile can only be
seen by you. Any comments you post to articles on our sites can be seen
by all readers and moderators.


          Newsletter Preferences

You are subscribed to the following:

  * Top O’ the Bay

    The latest stories from across the San Francisco Bay Area

  * Notes & Errata

    Mark Morford's irreverent and highly satiric weekly column

  * Breaking News

    Be notified when when big stories break or critical warnings are
    issued for the Bay Area

  * Sports

    Coverage of all your Bay Area teams

  * Inside Scoop

    Insider knowledge for Bay Area foodies

  * New Flicks

    The latest movie reviews

  * Business & Technology

    The latest in business, finance, and tech news

  * 5 Things To Do

    Great events across the Bay Area selected just for you


          San Francisco Chronicle Newsletters

  * Chronicle Commuter

    A curated selection of stories just in time for your afternoon commute

  * Membership Updates

    The latest from our membership benefits program (subscribers only)

  * e-edition Reminder

    Reminder of your daily e-edition, a replica of the print newspaper
    (subscribers only)

  * Subscription Reminders

    Notices and reminders about your subscription (subscribers only)


          Email Notifications and Offers

  * Feature Updates

    Special features, new site sections and more from The Chronicle and
    SFGATE

  * Promotions & Sales

    Subscription offers from the San Francisco Chronicle and other
    special promotions

  * Surveys

    Surveys about your Chronicle print edition, websites and other
    digital products

  * Advertiser Special Offers

    Receive special offers sent by us on behalf of select advertisers
    and partners

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in Forgot Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

You must be a subscriber to access this content.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

Stay signed in
Forgot Your Password?


          Sign In

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Back to Sign In

Email address field is required.

Email address is incorrect.

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


          Link Profiles

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot Your Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Forgot Your Password?


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Link Profiles

Stay signed in

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Forgot Your Password?


          SIGN IN


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot Your Password?
Keep me signed in


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Sign In With Your Existing San Francisco Chronicle Account
Sign In
OR

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Keep me signed in
Forgot Your Password?

By signing in, you agree to our terms of use
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/>.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password?

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in
Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot password?

Create an account

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a sign-in for your subscription account


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password

Have a profile on SFGate or San Francisco Chronicle already?

Sign In

Contact Customer Service at 800-310-2455 or email us at
homedelivery@sfchronicle.com <mailto:homedelivery@sfchronicle.com>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in

