KQED Menu

  *


      KQED News

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Menu

    <#>

  * KQED News Home

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs & Blogs

        <#>
      o News Fix

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Special Coverage

        <#>
      o Boomtown

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
  * Bay Curious

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>

  *


      KQED News

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Home

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs <#> Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o News Fix

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o Boomtown

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
  * Bay Curious

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California


  KQED News <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

Search

<#search-container>


  KQED News Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Search for:

News Fix <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>


  Finding Redemption in West Oakland: One Man’s Journey Back From the
  Streets

Landon Goodwin is a former minister who ends up on the streets of
Dogtown surviving as a street recycler. (/Chihiro Wimbush/ Courtesy of
ITVS/)

By Adam Grossberg <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/agrossberg/>
May 13, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/05/13/finding-redemption-in-west-oakland-one-mans-journey-back-from-the-streets/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/05/13/finding-redemption-in-west-oakland-one-mans-journey-back-from-the-streets/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/05/13/finding-redemption-in-west-oakland-one-mans-journey-back-from-the-streets/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/05/13/finding-redemption-in-west-oakland-one-mans-journey-back-from-the-streets/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/05/13/finding-redemption-in-west-oakland-one-mans-journey-back-from-the-streets/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/05/13/finding-redemption-in-west-oakland-one-mans-journey-back-from-the-streets/?share=email&nb=1>
*

Every year Californians buy about 22 billion beverages in aluminum,
glass and plastic containers. Every one of those containers can be
redeemed for a few cents each. That means trash can be turned into cash,
providing a lifeline for a subculture of marginalized recyclers — the
unemployed and underemployed, the elderly, the mentally and physically
disabled, former criminals, drug addicts and prostitutes — who, through
recycling, earn money and reclaim the pride that comes with having a job.

A new documentary, “Dogtown Redemption,”
<http://www.pbs.org/independentlens/films/dogtown-redemption/> tells the
stories of some of the people who make their living off our nation’s
vast river of trash. The film focuses on three central characters living
in Oakland, following them over seven years, to give insight into the
lives of America’s unseen.

Landon Goodwin, a former minister who ends up on the streets of Dogtown
surviving as a street recycler.
Landon Goodwin, a former minister who ended up on the streets of Dogtown
surviving as a street recycler. (Chihiro Wimbush/ Courtesy of ITVS)

One of those people is Landon Goodwin, a former minister who has
struggled with his own fall from grace. He found himself living on the
streets of West Oakland and relying on income made from recycling.

Among the recyclers, Goodwin is known as “the preacher.” He’s their
minister. A gentle, stylish man, he has a warm, generous and gracious
smile that conceals his hard times. As he puts it, living on the streets
is like being “in my valley of weeping.”

The film, which was produced by ITVS <http://itvs.org/> and will air on
PBS <http://www.pbs.org/independentlens/watch-video/> next week,
chronicles Goodwin’s long climb out of that valley, which began after
two vicious back-to-back attacks left him feeling unsafe on the streets
and in the shack that he used to call home.

Landon eventually leaves West Oakland for some tough love: his cousin’s
drug rehabilitation center. The film tracks Landon as he leaves behind
his friends and community — the recyclers — to return to his position as
preacher.

Can he serve as the bridge reconnecting the recyclers back to the
worlds, the churches, the professions, families and futures they have lost?

Jason Witt (right), the Olympic champion of recycling, hauls a shopping
cart with his girlfriend, Heather Holloman (left), on top.
Jason Witt (right), the Olympic champion of recycling, hauls a shopping
cart with his girlfriend, Heather Holloman (left), on top. (Chihiro
Wimbush/ Courtesy of ITVS)

“Dogtown Redemption” follows Goodwin and the other recyclers through the
prism of a single recycling center: Alliance Metals in the Dogtown
neighborhood of West Oakland. With annual sales in the millions,
Alliance is an anomaly in an otherwise depressed neighborhood that has
witnessed the steady flight, erosion and collapse of American industry.

Residents of new developments in West Oakland view Alliance Metals as
noisy, smelly and dirty — a giant garbage can that attracts scavengers,
drug dealers and criminals. The rattle of the shopping carts, missing
garbage cans, litter on the streets, public defecation, theft, crime and
trespassing are offered as evidence that the recyclers are a blight upon
the neighborhood.

After years of fighting, Alliance Metals is now slated to close in August.

Amir Soltani, the film’s director, was recently on /KQED Forum/. The
entire episode can be heard here
<http://ww2.kqed.org/forum/2016/04/05/dogtown-redemption-spotlights-homeless-recyclers-of-west-oakland/>.

/“Dogtown Redemption” airs nationally on PBS on May 16. The entire film
canbe streamed online <http://www.pbs.org/independentlens/watch-video/>
beginning May 15 through August 14. More information about the film can
be found here
<http://www.pbs.org/independentlens/films/dogtown-redemption/>./

Explore: Housing <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>, News
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/news/>, video
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/video/>, West Oakland
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/west-oakland/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/05/13/finding-redemption-in-west-oakland-one-mans-journey-back-from-the-streets/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/05/13/finding-redemption-in-west-oakland-one-mans-journey-back-from-the-streets/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/05/13/finding-redemption-in-west-oakland-one-mans-journey-back-from-the-streets/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/05/13/finding-redemption-in-west-oakland-one-mans-journey-back-from-the-streets/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/05/13/finding-redemption-in-west-oakland-one-mans-journey-back-from-the-streets/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/05/13/finding-redemption-in-west-oakland-one-mans-journey-back-from-the-streets/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

1 Comment
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/05/13/finding-redemption-in-west-oakland-one-mans-journey-back-from-the-streets/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related

Good Read: 'Dogtown Redemption,' Saga of Oakland Recyclers, Gets
Sundance Consideration

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2013/12/02/dogtown-redemption-considered-for-sundance-film-festival>

Advocates Raise Money to Help West Oakland Recyclers

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/08/17/advocates-raise-money-to-help-west-oakland-recyclers/>

What Happens to San Francisco's Recycling Once It Leaves the Curb?

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/01/05/what-happens-to-san-franciscos-recycling-once-it-leaves-the-curb>

Skid Row Land Rush: Now It's One of the Pricier Sections of L.A.

<http://dev.kqed.org/news/2015/04/23/skid-row-land-rush-now-its-one-of-the-pricier-sections-of-l-a>

Oakland Artist Crafts Homes for Those Who Have None

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2014/02/21/oakland-artist-gregory-kloehn-builds-tiny-homes-for-homeless/>

Jose and Mr. Ramos: A Top Student Faces Uncertain Future Due to
Immigration Status

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2015/12/20/jose-and-mr-ramos-teacher-and-student-face-uncertain-future-due-to-immigrant-status>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


    Author


      Adam Grossberg

Adam Grossberg is a web video producer at KQED News.
Email: agrossberg@kqed.org.

View all posts by this author
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/agrossberg/>


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>


  Post navigation

Prev Undocumented Kids Soon Eligible for Medi-Cal

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/05/13/undocumented-kids-soon-eligible-for-medi-cal/>
Next Amid Allegations Of Bias, Facebook Explains How 'Trending Topics'
Works

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/05/13/amid-allegations-of-bias-facebook-explains-how-trending-topics-works/>



  About KQED

  * About <http://www.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://www.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://www.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://www.kqed.org/about/help/index.jsp>


  Follow KQED News

  * Follow Us on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KQEDnews>
  * Follow Us on Twitter <https://twitter.com/kqednews>
  * Connect on Instagram <http://instagram.com/kqednews>
  * Connect on Google+ <https://plus.google.com/117185877001714843452/posts>
  * Connect on YouTube <https://www.youtube.com/user/KQEDnews>

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

:)
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.


  Get the facts!

Close

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil
