KQED Menu

  *


      KQED Arts

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>

  * KQED Arts Menu

    <#>

  * KQED Arts Home

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Books

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/literature/>
      o Comedy

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/comedy/>
      o Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/culture/>
      o Dance

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/dance/>
      o Digital Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/digitalarts/>
      o Fashion/Design

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/design/>
      o Movies

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/music/>
      o News

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/news/>
      o Performance Art

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/performance/>
      o Pop Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/popculture/>
      o Theater

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/theater/>
      o TV

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/tv/>
      o Visual Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/visualarts/>
  * Programs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs

        <#>
      o Art School

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/artschool/>
      o The Bay Bridged

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/affiliates/the-bay-bridged/>
      o Culture Cue

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/culture-cue/>
      o The Do List

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
      o Earful

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/earful/>
      o Film School Shorts

        <http://blogs.kqed.org/filmschoolshorts/>
      o ImageMakers

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/imagemakers/>
      o Into the Mix

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/into-the-mix/>
      o KQED Pop

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/pop/>
      o Spark

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/spark/>
      o Truly CA

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/trulyca/>
  * Specials

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Specials

        <#>
      o Arts Education

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-in-education/>
      o Arts + Social Issues

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-plus-social-issues/>
      o pARTicipate

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/participate/>
      o Priced Out

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/pricedout/>
      o Our Creative Nature

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/our-creative-nature/>
      o Fall Arts Guide

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/fall-arts-guide-2016/>
  * The Do List

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
  * Videos

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/videos/>

  *


      KQED Arts

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>

  * KQED Arts Home

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Books

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/literature/>
      o Comedy

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/comedy/>
      o Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/culture/>
      o Dance

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/dance/>
      o Digital Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/digitalarts/>
      o Fashion/Design

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/design/>
      o Movies

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/music/>
      o News

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/news/>
      o Performance Art

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/performance/>
      o Pop Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/popculture/>
      o Theater

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/theater/>
      o TV

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/tv/>
      o Visual Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/visualarts/>
  * Programs

    <#>
      o Art School

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/artschool/>
      o The Bay Bridged

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/affiliates/the-bay-bridged/>
      o Culture Cue

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/culture-cue/>
      o The Do List

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
      o Earful

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/earful/>
      o Film School Shorts

        <http://blogs.kqed.org/filmschoolshorts/>
      o ImageMakers

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/imagemakers/>
      o Into the Mix

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/into-the-mix/>
      o KQED Pop

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/pop/>
      o Spark

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/spark/>
      o Truly CA

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/trulyca/>
  * Specials

    <#>
      o Arts Education

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-in-education/>
      o Arts + Social Issues

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-plus-social-issues/>
      o pARTicipate

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/participate/>
      o Priced Out

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/pricedout/>
      o Our Creative Nature

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/our-creative-nature/>
      o Fall Arts Guide

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/fall-arts-guide-2016/>
  * The Do List

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
  * Videos

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/videos/>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California


  KQED Arts <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>

Search

<#search-container>


  KQED Arts Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Search for:

Tom Waits is among many Bay Area musicians who approach homelessness
with understanding instead of scorn.

Tom Waits is among many Bay Area musicians who approach homelessness
with understanding instead of scorn. (/Photo: Matt Mahurin/)

News <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/news/>


  Five Songs for the Homeless: The Bay Area’s Empathy on Record

By Gabe Meline <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/author/gmeline/>
<http://twitter.com/gmeline>
June 29, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/five-songs-for-the-homeless-the-bay-areas-empathy-on-record/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/five-songs-for-the-homeless-the-bay-areas-empathy-on-record/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/five-songs-for-the-homeless-the-bay-areas-empathy-on-record/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/five-songs-for-the-homeless-the-bay-areas-empathy-on-record/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/five-songs-for-the-homeless-the-bay-areas-empathy-on-record/?share=email&nb=1>
*


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>

You might have seen it, tucked into the /New York Times/’ report
<http://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/16/us/san-francisco-homelessness.html>
about the Bay Area’s coordinated coverage of homelessness: the phrase
“clumps of humanity,” referring to San Francisco’s homeless population.

My KQED coworkers and I weren’t the only ones
<http://www.salon.com/2016/05/16/clumps_of_humanity_this_new_york_times_article_treated_homelessness_in_just_about_the_worst_way_possible/>
who noticed the Times’ term, a denigration to those down on their luck.
But it was especially strange to someone who covers music. Immediately,
I thought of the many songs from the Bay Area that treat homelessness
not with scorn, but with understanding and empathy.

Some of those songs are by musicians who’ve been homeless themselves.
Nearly all are by artists who’ve found ways to either give back to the
organizations that helped them, or to help others without a roof over
their head.


    Crimpshrine – “Sleep, What’s That?”

San Francisco punk bands had sung about being homeless before — DRI’s
“Soup Kitchen Blues <http://genius.com/Dri-soup-kitchen-lyrics>” and
MDC’s “No Place to Piss <http://genius.com/Mdc-no-place-to-piss-lyrics>”
were both products of band members’ experiences squatting and
couch-surfing in mid-’80s San Francisco. But Crimpshrine’s /Sleep,
What’s That?/ EP, released in 1988 by a fledgling new record label
called Lookout Records, tackled the issue head-on in its title track.
Singer/guitarist Jeff Ott was himself homeless at the time, singing:

    So much food to eat, so many homes to sleep in
    Stores so full of food, so why must I eat from a garbage bin?
    There’s 1,600 people walking around today, thinking life’s a little
    game to play
    Trying to avoid police abduction, trying to avoid hunger and
    self-destruction

During a show at 924 Gilman
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=adbbq2-w2WY> in 1989, Ott introduced
the song by saying: “It’s about myself and all my friends on Telegraph
Avenue who have no place to live, and who go without enough food every
day. And there’s places they could be sleeping, and they get busted for it.”

Lookout Records would go on to international renown with bands like
Green Day and Operation Ivy, and when Crimpshrine’s EPs were reissued,
the band took the opportunity to give back to the organizations that’d
helped them when they were on the streets, donating royalties to Food
Not Bombs <http://ebfnb.org/> and the Berkeley Free Clinic
<http://www.berkeleyfreeclinic.org/>.


    Tom Waits – “Cold Water”

Tom Waits has long been an advocate for the homeless, whether in songs
like “On the Nickel” — a beautiful ballad from /Heartattack and Vine/
about Los Angeles’ Fifth Street — or in lending a song to the soundtrack
of /Streetwise/, a 1984 documentary about homeless teenagers in Seattle.

For his 1999 album /Mule Variations/, Waits penned the sympathetic ode
“Cold Water,” a lovely and sad song in the voice of a homeless teenager:

    I look 47 but I’m 24
    Well they shooed me away from here the time before
    Turned their backs and they locked their doors
    I’m watchin’ TV in the window of a furniture store

More recently, Waits released /Seeds on Hard Ground/, a limited-edition
chapbook of his poetry about homelessness. All proceeds were donated to
the Redwood Empire Food Bank <http://www.refb.org/>, Sonoma County
Homeless Referral Services <http://sonomacountyhomeless.org/> and Family
Support Center <http://www.srcharities.org/get-help/shelter-housing> run
by the Catholic Charities of Santa Rosa.


    2Pac – “Changes”

Before he moved to Oakland, Tupac Shakur grew up around tough
neighborhoods in the Bronx, Harlem and Baltimore. Oftentimes, without a
steady income, his single mother Afeni brought Shakur to stay at
homeless shelters. The experience helped inspire “Changes,” originally
recorded in 1993:

    And still I see no changes
    Can’t a brother get a little peace?
    It’s war on the streets and a war in the Middle East
    Instead of war on poverty
    They got a war on drugs so the police can bother me

Shakur put his money where his mouth was, planning a high-profile
benefit concert
<http://articles.latimes.com/1996-08-30/local/me-38987_1_safe-house> for
the brand-new community center A Place Called Home
<http://www.apch.org/>, serving impoverished and at-risk children in
South Central Los Angeles. Shakur was murdered just weeks before the
concert, but he greatly raised the center’s visibility. A Place Called
Home celebrates its 20th anniversary this year.


    Metallica – “Low Man’s Lyric”

You might assume that James Hetfield doesn’t have much exposure to
homelessness, living as he does in one of the wealthiest per-capita
counties in the nation. And yet a recent KQED Forum broadcast from Marin
County
<https://ww2.kqed.org/forum/2016/06/21/forum-on-the-road-san-rafael-s-homeless-plan-stirs-debate/>
showed that amidst Marin’s multi-million dollar homes and shiny
Maseratis lives a sizeable homeless population on the street. Some are
there due to drug addiction, a group Hetfield sings for in “Low Man’s
Lyric”:

    The trash fire is warm
    But nowhere safe from the storm
    And I can’t bear to see
    What I’ve let me be
    So wicked and worn

Marin is an interesting case study for homelessness in areas with a vast
senior-citizen population; the vicious resistance to affordable housing
in the region is leaving many of advanced age out in the cold. While
organizations like Homeward Bound <https://hbofm.org/> and the Ritter
Center <http://www.rittercenter.org/> provide for Marin’s homeless,
Metallica bassist Robert Trujilo recently took part in a benefit
<http://www.ktvu.com/news/134956135-story> for San Francisco’s St.
Anthony’s Foundation, which provides services and meals to those in need.


    Dead Kennedys – “Kill the Poor”

It wouldn’t be the Bay Area without a heavy dose of satire, would it?
With “Kill the Poor,” Dead Kennedys singer Jello Biafra takes intensive
homeless eradication (like San Francisco’s recent encampment sweeps
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/03/01/s-f-clearing-homeless-holdouts-from-division-street-neighborhood>)
to its logical conclusion:

    The sun beams down on a brand new day
    No more welfare tax to pay
    Unsightly slums gone up in flashing light
    Jobless millions whisked away
    At last we have more room to play
    All systems go: kill the poor tonight!

It couldn’t happen here, could it? And yet witnessing this year’s
complete sweep of the homeless on Division Street
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/03/01/s-f-clearing-homeless-holdouts-from-division-street-neighborhood>
— complete with tents removed, personal possessions hauled away and
barricades erected to block public land — one can’t help but wonder how
many steps away we are, really, from Biafra’s over-the-top proposal.

Explore: Music <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/music/>, News
<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/news/>, guide
<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/tag/guide/>, news
<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/tag/news-2/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/five-songs-for-the-homeless-the-bay-areas-empathy-on-record/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/five-songs-for-the-homeless-the-bay-areas-empathy-on-record/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/five-songs-for-the-homeless-the-bay-areas-empathy-on-record/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/five-songs-for-the-homeless-the-bay-areas-empathy-on-record/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/five-songs-for-the-homeless-the-bay-areas-empathy-on-record/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

0 Comments
<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/five-songs-for-the-homeless-the-bay-areas-empathy-on-record/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related Posts from KQED Arts

SF Arts and Homeless Organizations Join Forces to Secure More City Funding

<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/05/27/sf-arts-and-homeless-organizations-join-forces-to-secure-more-city-funding/>

Facing Gentrification, 924 Gilman's Stability Boosted by Green Day Tribute

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/02/17/green-day-dookie-924-gilman/>

Mix Tape: Highlights from Bay Area Punk, Post-Punk and Hardcore

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2012/10/22/mix_tape_highlights_from_bay_area_punk_post-punk_and_hardcore/>

Heaviness Is Guaranteed: A Conversation with James Williamson

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2015/11/17/heaviness-is-guaranteed-a-conversation-with-james-williamson/>

Remembering the Time Tupac Shakur Sued the Oakland Police for $10 Million

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/16/its-tupac-day-in-oakland-where-he-once-sued-the-police-for-10-million/>

Live Review: Green Day Plays 924 Gilman, Welcomed Back After 21 Years

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2015/05/18/live-review-green-day-plays-924-gilman-for-the-first-time-in-21-years/>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


    Author


      Gabe Meline

Gabe Meline is KQED Arts' Online Editor. He lives with his wife, his
daughter, a 1964 Volvo and too many records in his hometown of Santa
Rosa, CA. Find him on Twitter at @gmeline <https://twitter.com/gmeline>.

View all posts by this author <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/author/gmeline/>


  Post navigation

Prev Scotty Moore, Elvis Presley's First Guitarist, Dies at 84

<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/scotty-moore-elvis-presleys-first-guitarist-dies-at-84/>
Next Why Art-Making is Essential to the Tenderloin’s Homeless Population

<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/why-art-making-is-essential-to-the-tenderloins-homeless-population/>



  About KQED Arts

KQED Arts provides daily arts news, reviews and profiles for the San
Francisco Bay Area.

  * Contributors <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/contributors/>
  * Contact Us <mailto:arts@kqed.org>


  About KQED

  * About <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/>

Funding for KQED Arts is provided by The William and Flora Hewlett
Foundation <http://www.hewlett.org/>.

The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation <http://www.hewlett.org/>

Support is also provided by the Kenneth Rainin Foundation and the
members of KQED.

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

[blank image]
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.


  When you need an art fix!

Close

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil
:)
