//

<#>
//

<#>

  * News <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/view-all-blog-articles>
  * Identities <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/identities>
  * Entertainment <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/entertainment>
  * Music <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/music>
  * Lifestyle <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/lifestyle>

logo <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/>
WYV Exclusive
Sign-up to our mailing list!

  *

    <https://www.facebook.com/wyvmag/>
  *

    <https://twitter.com/wearyourvoice>
  *

    <https://www.instagram.com/wearyourvoicemag/>
  *

    <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCWUELcfXOqUhhlpRW5l5TcA>

//
Lost your password?
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/wp-login.php?action=lostpassword&wpe-login=ravneetvohra>


//
//

  * News

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/view-all-blog-articles>
  * Identities

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/identities>
  * Entertainment

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/entertainment>
  * Music

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/music>
  * Lifestyle

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/lifestyle>
  * // Trending

    <#>


        // Trending

    Now

    <#>Week

    <#>Month

    <#>

        Not enough data yet, please check again later.

  * //

    <#>


  For Many California Residents, Homelessness is No More Than One Crisis
  Away

ravneetvohra@gmail.com'Guest Blogger
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/guest-blogger>//Jun 28, 2016//Social
Justice <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/social-justice>
Home <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/>//More
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more>//Social Justice
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/social-justice>
Homelessness: an abandoned trailer in a trailer park.

After being homeless for a year, Heather Seggel lived in a trailer with
her father for many years. Photo by Matthew Hester.
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/matthewhester/7845557426/> Creative
Commons license.


  Homelessness is easy to fall into — and astonishingly hard to climb
  out of.

*by Heather Seggel*

My dad and I became homeless in the summer of 2004. I’ve told the story
so many times it sometimes feels like the only salient fact about me,
but the just-add-water version goes like this: We were still living
together in the rented house I grew up in because we were poor. My dad
was disabled and supplemented his very low fixed income with odd jobs
when he was able. It was a rural, remote location, and I’ve never
learned to drive or owned a car — the general store and post office were
a three-mile hike one way, and the nearest bus stop was farther still in
the opposite direction. I was scraping by on what I could make with my
writing — a very tiny income. Just paying for dial-up internet each
month was an expense so daunting that a kind friend subsidized me for a
year.

When the house’s owner died and her kids elected to sell the place, we
were in no position to buy it, much less deal with the backlog of
unaddressed structural issues. We’d had the stewardship responsibility
of owners but no equity, so we had to go.

A dozen or so pathetic yard sales later, my dad and I stored a few
things in a neighbor’s shed, tied two small tents and a random
assortment of camping supplies onto the roof of our tiny Toyota
hatchback and hit the beach. Specifically, two campgrounds in Bodega
Bay, arguably one of the most beautiful places on earth, the optics of
which we were ruining for all the “real” campers. You can only spend ten
days in any one campground and the rangers and hosts bent the rules as
far as they could for us, knowing our plight, but we also had to crash
on the floor at my aunt’s house, a situation too volatile and complex to
delve into here — beyond noting that if family dynamics are bad, adding
crystal meth does not improve them. We were desperate to get away but
had no direction to point ourselves.

My dad didn’t really try to avoid what was barreling toward us, while I
was on the phone crying to anyone who would listen, begging for help.
*What people who have not been through it have a hard time understanding
is that homelessness is actually very easy to fall into:* Live paycheck
to paycheck, add one crisis and you’re potentially a club member. *Yet
it’s strikingly difficult to prevent, and astonishingly hard to climb
out of.*

*Related: Compassion for the Homeless: We Need New Solutions*

It took us over a year — thirteen months to the day, in fact — and what
we found was a ramshackle one-bedroom trailer in a park overrun with
mental instability and drug abuse, for twice what we’d been paying for a
two-bedroom house. I hit the ground running, found a job within the
month and we were on our way to rebuilding our lives.

We stayed in that trailer for the remainder of my dad’s life. He died in
2011 as we were preparing to move into a larger trailer that would
accommodate a hospital bed, and I went ahead with the move to escape the
combative drunk who lived next door and had made our lives a living
hell. No longer employed as my dad’s caregiver and faced with rent more
than double what my share had previously been, this was a steep
challenge. I collected unemployment that did not cover the rent, applied
for food stamps and tried to figure out what to do next.

This trailer … had problems. Mice occupied one entire wall that had to
be removed, and rats found it appealing as well. Leaks had destroyed the
ceiling in the smaller bedroom before I moved in — it was hanging down
like a dog’s tongue and you could see inside to the insulation — but the
landlord was chagrined that I would ask him to repair it, even as he
repeatedly raised my rent. The swamp cooler leaked, a water feature of
sorts as it cascaded past my window. The living room leaked and so did
the kitchen, both in multiple streams.

The landlord thought I was “mean” for complaining about this, and also
for steering his septuagenarian chatter away from constant, disgusting
evaluations of my figure. I was trying to work from home, once again
attempting to make enough from my writing to live on, but my home was
often full of shady repairmen whose work never solved the problem they’d
come to address. I was constantly squaring off against someone who had
just made a serious problem worse — and then one of them threatened me.
It was time to move.

I had very little money and could find nowhere to go. Another aunt
offered me a room in a house she was renting while I tried to find a
place. I accepted because I thought this was family helping family, but
the rent she ended up charging meant I could not afford to travel out to
look at places, and she offered very little help in that regard despite
knowing a wide and varied network of people. It turned out she was
struggling to pay her own rent, so keeping me there offered her a buffer
while she waited to advance on a waiting list for an affordable senior
apartment. I was there for a year, and it was in many ways worse than
being homeless — which at least had offered the ocean as consolation.

When my aunt’s apartment came through, she started packing and I was
left scrambling to find a place with virtually no time to do so. Back
before my dad and I received our notice to vacate I had been writing for
a bunch of different small papers in Northern California, including
Sonoma County’s monthly LGBT paper. The editor and I got along well, and
though we hadn’t stayed in close touch over the years it turned out he
lived not far from where I was staying with my aunt and had a room he
could rent to me. I moved in and genuinely enjoyed my time there, though
I was paying the same rent and thus similarly hampered in my attempts to
find a place for the long term.

It took me just under two years in total to land an apartment back in
Ukiah. I’m in a nicer place, a studio that costs less than either of
those rooms did. I consider myself fortunate in the extreme, since I had
to beg to get the place without being able to come up and see it first
and made the move with a total stranger hired from Craigslist (we were
each equally worried that the other might be a serial killer, so it was
a relief to survive the experience). Those two years of unstable housing
stretched the savings I’d accumulated as a buffer against ever being
homeless again to an uncomfortable degree, and while I’m writing to get
by right now, I’m applying for work that will offer some financial
stability for the future. I know all too well that those jobs are in
short supply and I’ve been turned down for more of them than I can count.

Homelessness is a persistent problem because our economy persists in
favoring those who least need what it has to offer. Until that disparity
is corrected, the problem, and its consequences for our communities, are
here to stay.

/Heather Seggel is a freelance writer seeking a “real job” while working
at her dream job. She is currently living in Ukiah, California./

|

|


      Comments

Share This Post:
/

/
Previous Article
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/entertainment/black-celebrities-care-black-lives-need>To
The Black Celebrities Who Care About Black Lives: We Need You
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/entertainment/black-celebrities-care-black-lives-need>
/

/
Next Article
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/ableism/5-tips-stopping-anxiety-tracks>5
Tips for Stopping Anxiety in its Tracks
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/ableism/5-tips-stopping-anxiety-tracks>
ravneetvohra@gmail.com' <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/guest-blogger>
Guest Blogger <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/guest-blogger>


Related Posts

  *
    Photo by amboo who? Creative Commons license.
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/lgbtq-identities/trans-liberation-didnt-start-bathroom>


            Trans Liberation Didn’t Start With a Bathroom
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/lgbtq-identities/trans-liberation-didnt-start-bathroom>

    Venus Selenite <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/venusselenite>//Apr
    27, 2016
  *
    Donald Trump won the election.
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/politics/election-fallout-begins>


            The Election Fallout Begins for Women, People of Color,
            Immigrants and LGBTQ Community
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/politics/election-fallout-begins>

    Sezin Koehler <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/sezin>//Nov 10, 2016
  *
    women-facint-jail-lesbians-wear-your-voice-article
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/lgbtq-identities/black-lesbian-couple-wrongfully-sentenced-25-years-kuwaiti-prison-hasnt-u-s-stepped>


            American Women Facing Kuwait Prison Sentence Get Chance to
            Appeal
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/lgbtq-identities/black-lesbian-couple-wrongfully-sentenced-25-years-kuwaiti-prison-hasnt-u-s-stepped>

    Rachel Otis <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/rachel-otis>//Mar 3, 2016
  *
    Frank Ocean in a purple shirt.
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/lgbtq-identities/frank-ocean-pens-beautiful-letter-orlando-compassion>


            Frank Ocean Pens Beautiful Letter About Orlando and
            Compassion
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/lgbtq-identities/frank-ocean-pens-beautiful-letter-orlando-compassion>

    Laurel Dickman
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/laurel-dickman>//Jun 22, 2016
  *
    "Sleep when you can get some" by Elliot Margolies. Creative Commons
    license.
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/compassion-for-the-homeless>


            Compassion for the Homeless: We Need New Solutions
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/compassion-for-the-homeless>

    Beth Winegarner
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/beth-winegarner>//Feb 24, 2016
  *
    Homelessness really can happen to anyone.
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/domestic-violence-gateway-homelessness>


            Out of Domestic Violence and Into Homelessness: “The public
            doesn’t want to see this part of society.”
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/domestic-violence-gateway-homelessness>

    Laurel Dickman
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/laurel-dickman>//Jul 1, 2016
  *
    Brock Turner mugshot
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/lenient-sentences-white-rapists-brock>


            Why Are We Still Surprised by Leniency for White Rapists
            Like Brock Turner?
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/lenient-sentences-white-rapists-brock>

    Guest Blogger <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/guest-blogger>//Aug
    31, 2016
  *
    Janna Jihad, 10-year-old Palestinian journalist.
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/feminism/530-daily-share-10-year-old-journalist-janna-jihad-reports-palestine>


            Daily Share: 10-Year-Old Journalist Janna Jihad Reports Live
            From Palestine
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/feminism/530-daily-share-10-year-old-journalist-janna-jihad-reports-palestine>

    Guest Blogger <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/guest-blogger>//May
    30, 2016

  * //

    <#>
  * //

    <#>

logo <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/>

  * Media Kit <http://media.wearyourvoicemag.com/>
  * Our Team <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team-page>
  * Terms of Use <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/terms-of-use>

  * About Us <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/our-story>
  * Writer Submissions <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/writer>
  * CONTACT <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/contact>

  * Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/wyvmag/>
  * Instagram <https://www.instagram.com/wearyourvoicemag/>
  * Twitter
    <https://twitter.com/WearYourVoice?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor>
  * Youtube <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCWUELcfXOqUhhlpRW5l5TcA>

:)
