/

/
// <https://www.facebook.com/48hills> // <https://twitter.com/48hills>
// <#>

  * News + Politics

    <http://48hills.org/news-politics/>
  * Arts + Culture

    <http://48hills.org/arts-culture/>
  * Music + Nightlife

    <http://48hills.org/music-nightlife/>
  * Politics <http://48hills.org/news-politics/>
  * Culture <http://48hills.org/arts-culture/>
  * Nightlife <http://48hills.org/music-nightlife/>
  * Search

    <http://48hills.org/search/>

// <#>
Search

Sponsored link
<http://48hills.org/linkout/17024>
// <#>
48 hills

<http://48hills.org/>

  * News + Politics

    <http://48hills.org/news-politics/>
  * Arts + Culture

    <http://48hills.org/arts-culture/>
  * Music + Nightlife

    <http://48hills.org/music-nightlife/>
  * Politics <http://48hills.org/news-politics/>
  * Culture <http://48hills.org/arts-culture/>
  * Nightlife <http://48hills.org/music-nightlife/>
  * Search

    <http://48hills.org/search/>

//

<#> // <#>

// <https://www.facebook.com/48hills> // <https://twitter.com/48hills>

  * Best of the Bay <http://48hills.org/sections/best-of-the-bay/>
  * Contact <http://48hills.org/contact/>
  * About <http://48hills.org/about/>
  * Newsletter <http://48hills.org/newsletter/>
  * Advertise With Us <http://48hills.org/advertise-with-us/>
  * Shop <http://48hills.org/store/>
  * Donate <http://48hills.org/support-donate/>

  * LOG IN

Welcome! Log into your account
Forgot your password? <#>
Recover your password
Home <http://48hills.org/> // News + Politics
<http://48hills.org/sections/news-politics/>
Is the Chron going to support a pointless and nasty attack on homeless
people?

  * News + Politics <http://48hills.org/sections/news-politics/>


  For homeless people, normal life becomes ‘dangerous’

Eating, dreaming, reading, sitting, contemplating, resting, talking,
working, chilling, convening, kissing, and god forbid, even having
sexual relations are suddenly criminal when you don't have a private home

By Tiny <http://48hills.org/author/tiny/> -
Jun 28th

/Editor’s note: News media all over San Francisco are writing about
homelessness this week. We though we could offer a very different
perspective. Our first piece looked at why there are so many homeless
people on the streets
<http://48hills.org/2016/06/27/why-are-so-many-people-homeless-in-sf/>.
This piece by Tiny describes what life is really like when you don’t
have a place to live./

The moon was bright; it lit up the sky and shone down on our plates. We
had set our little table with care, dreaming of the small but
nonetheless, delicious portion of meat me and my mama were gonna share
for dinner.

Then:  CLACK..CLACK, CLACK… PLEASE ROLL DOWN THE WINDOW…Why are you
parked HERE?”

A San Francisco Police officer was looking through our car window after
he had banged on it with his flashlight.

Do these folks look scary or dangerous -- or are they just living the
way the rest of us do, except they are on the streets?
<http://i2.wp.com/48hills.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/48hillshomelesscampfood-1.jpg>
Do these folks look scary or dangerous — or are they just living the way
the rest of us do, except they are on the streets? Along Division
Street, campers including Donna and Cathy serve each other at a
makeshift picnic. Photo by Sana Saleem.

This was one of many times throughout my childhood of houselessness with
my mama, that police, security guards, and random people who didn’t like
a houseless single mother and child sitting, sleeping, or resting in an
old car parked in their neighborhoods would harass, arrest, or profile
us for the sole reason that we had no roof.

Eating, dreaming, reading, sitting, contemplating, resting, talking,
working, chilling, convening, kissing and god forbid, even having sexual
relations
<http://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/16/us/san-francisco-homelessness.html?_r=0>
while houseless (or unhoused, as I began calling us folks without roofs
in the middle of Superbowl Sweeps of tents across SF) are normal human
activities that are automatically criminalized, and/or seen as strange,
odd, “scary,” or “dangerous” if they are done by unhoused people.

These are everyday regular activities that all humans do EVERYDAY,
sometimes multiple times. But there is something terrifying to people
about being able to “see each other” do these normal human things.

Humanity in this post-industrialized, colonized reality is associated
with privacy; the ability to do things in private somehow makes us
human. And privacy itself, in these times of dangerous housing
shortages, high-speed gentrification, and corporate theft of so-called
public land, is an act of privilege. Being able to even afford access to
a roof of one’s own, to a private space, unseen by others is accessible
to less and less people.

The other dimension of this issue is that in the 21st Century we have
all been socialized to believe in the buying, selling and profiting off
of mama earth and the nuclear or pseudo-nuclear style of living,
inter-acting and surviving in little private modules. For reasons tied
to so-called modern living and capitalism, we have all moved away from
collective living, convening, food-sharing, food-gathering, collective
work. As well, we have casually abandoned our own communities of origin,
our family homes, our elders, and often times our cultures.

Related article  The Agenda, Election Day issue: Will Big Tech take over
SF politics?

<http://48hills.org/2016/11/07/agenda-election-day-issue-will-big-tech-take-sf-politics/>

Inherent in this is the rise in gentrification, the need for more and
more rental housing and the idea that new and different is better, that
the ideal of clean and orderly is a kind of corporate fascist “clean”
that includes no humans, especially if they are sick, or old, or look
“poor” or disabled

Which all brings us to the experience of Chronicle editor in chief
Audrey Cooper, who witnessed unhoused people having sex in public
<http://www.salon.com/2016/05/16/clumps_of_humanity_this_new_york_times_article_treated_homelessness_in_just_about_the_worst_way_possible/>
— and whether taken out of context or not was “disturbed” by this sight
and was inspired to launch a one-day media confluence on the issue of
“Homelessness.”

The thing about this so-called “series,” which will be comprised of
mostly media of the land-stealing (land-owning) or corporate class who
would actually like to see us in jail, “swept away” or out of sight
completely, is that those of us who are actually unhoused, who have been
unhoused for most of our lives or are currently struggling with losing
our housing, are not the ones you will be hearing from in this series
(except thanks to Laney Tower and 48 Hills).

Rather, it will be the same media-makers, who as my mama Dee used to say
“have never missed a meal,” have never struggled with the terrifying
loss of self, belongings and home, who can report calmly and
“objectively” on real estate investor Sup. Mark Farrell and
poor-people-hater Scott Weiner’s attempt to put yet another law in place
to criminalize us of the sole act of being homeless
<http://48hills.org/2016/06/23/sick-politics-behind-farrell-wiener-anti-homeless-measures/>.

Additionally, I’m sure there will be multiple stories about
corporate-enabler-Mayor Ed Lie’s newest Kafka-esque “department of
homelessness,” which is a newly packaged version of the Mayor’s Office
of Housing’s claims of the 1990s, under Gavin Newsom, which claimed to
do exactly the same thing as this new agency, and which POOR Magazine’s
own Leroy Moore was a panel member on and testifies to.

I wonder if this series will deal with the racist, classist police
murder of unhoused and Brown Luis Demetrio Gongora, or unhoused and
Black Jessica Nelson Williams, both murders due in large part to the
fact that they were both houseless and people of color and therefore
unprotected, surveilled, followed, profiled, and harassed for doing nothing.

Sponsored link
<http://48hills.org/linkout/16675>

Will this “ground-breaking” series highlight the tireless research of
fellow poverty skolaz ( as we at POOR Magazine call people who have
struggled with actual poverty and struggle ) of Western Regional
Advocacy Project (WRAP), <http://www.wraphome.org/> which tracked and
unpacked the decades long dismantling of public or what i call poor
people housing aka projects, Section 8 and housing subsidies? And will
it include the WeSearch <http://www.poormagazine.org/node/5470> as we
call it at POOR Magazine <http://www.poormagazine.org/> – i.e. poor
people -led research – that interviewed and chronicled 86 unhoused San
Franciscan residents who had had their belongings stolen by Department
of Public Works and thrown in trash bins, because we are unhoused our
belongings are not seen as belongings anymore and are viewed only as trash.

Related article  Landlord tries to justify evicting 100-year-old

<http://48hills.org/2016/10/03/landlord-tries-justify-evicting-100-year-old/>

And most of all, will this ground-breaking series highlight the
“ground-breaking” ceremony of Homefulness
<http://www.poormagazine.org/homefulness> — a poor and indigenous
people-led solution to homelessness like we are doing in Deep East
Oakland (Huchuin) on BlackArthur (MacArthur), the Sogorea Te Land Trust
— a Native woman-owned land trust in Huchuin or Landless peoples are
doing in Brazil with the MST (Movemeiento Sin Tierra) or Shackdwellers
are doing in South Africa with the Shackdwellers Union?

All of these pioneers are unhoused, poor, and landless peoples who
refuse to accept the poltrickster hamster wheel of subsistence survival
and are pushing for decolonized visions. With all of the abandoned
government properties in San Francisco, a Homefulness would be very
possible. But perhaps self-determined, truth- based projects are
threatening to the land-stealing class?

And finally, houselessness, homelessness, or whatever you want to call
people who have no roof is not a “thing.” We are not a “tribe” or a
nation because we don’t have enough money to pay insanely high rent. We
are just folks who need to be heard in our own voices, with our own
stories and our own solutions.

/Lisa Grey-Garcia, aka Tiny, is a poverty scholar, revolutionary
journalist, lecturer, Po’ Poet and welfareQUEEN,  Mixed Race,
Boriken-Taino, Roma mama of Tiburcio, daughter of Dee, and the
co–founder of POOR Magazine/Prensa POBRE/PoorNewsNetwork
<http://www.poormagazine.org/>. She founded Escuela de la
gente/PeopleSkool- a poor and indigenous people-led skool  as well as
the Po Poets Project, welfareQUEENs & the Theatre of the POOR to name a
few. She is also the author of Criminal of Poverty: Growing Up Homeless
in America, co-editor of A Decolonizers Guide to A Humble Revolution,
Born & Raised in Frisco and the upcoming textbook- Poverty SkolaShip
#101- A PeoplesTeXt- In 2011 she co-launched The Homefulness Project
<http://www.poormagazine.org/homefulness>– a landless peoples,
self-determined land liberation movement in the Ohlone territory known
as Deep East Oakland, CalifaZtlan/


Share this

  * 92Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)92
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/28/for-homeless-people-normal-life-becomes-scary/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/28/for-homeless-people-normal-life-becomes-scary/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/28/for-homeless-people-normal-life-becomes-scary/?share=reddit&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/28/for-homeless-people-normal-life-becomes-scary/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/28/for-homeless-people-normal-life-becomes-scary/?share=linkedin&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/28/for-homeless-people-normal-life-becomes-scary/?share=pocket&nb=1>
  * Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)
    <whatsapp://send?text=For%20homeless%20people%2C%20normal%20life%20becomes%20%27dangerous%27%20http%3A%2F%2F48hills.org%2F2016%2F06%2F28%2Ffor-homeless-people-normal-life-becomes-scary%2F>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/28/for-homeless-people-normal-life-becomes-scary/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/28/for-homeless-people-normal-life-becomes-scary/#print>
*

  * TAGS
  * Homeless

    <http://48hills.org/topics/homeless/>
  * Homeless Project

    <http://48hills.org/topics/homeless-project/>
  * Homelessness

    <http://48hills.org/topics/homelessness/>
  * Housing

    <http://48hills.org/topics/housing/>
  * News Media

    <http://48hills.org/topics/news-media/>
  * SF Chronicle

    <http://48hills.org/topics/sf-chronicle/>

<http://48hills.org/author/tiny/>
Tiny <http://48hills.org/author/tiny/>

Sponsored link
<http://48hills.org/linkout/16677>

More by Tiny

 1.

    Mamas fight for justice for their African sons
    <http://48hills.org/2016/08/24/mamas-fight-justice-african-sons/>

 2.

    The tragedy of poverty
    <http://48hills.org/2016/01/12/the-tragedy-of-poverty/>

 3.

    ‘Lowrider Lawyers’ put the city on trial
    <http://48hills.org/2016/01/07/lowrider-lawyers-put-the-city-on-trial/>

More from this section

  *

    More than a million people in SF? Did anyone ask you?
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/28/17209/>

  *

    Developer allies again try to take over Sierra Club
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/28/developer-allies-try-take-sierra-club/>

  *

    The Tom and Tim Show: No more Teflon
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/27/tom-tim-show-no-teflon/>

  *

    The Agenda, Nov. 28-Dec. 4: An honest tenant scorecard
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/27/the-agenda-nov-28-dec-4-an-honest-tenant-scorecard/>

  *

    Standing Rock Diary: ‘I am honored to be a healer warrior’
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/27/i-am-honored-healer-standing-rock/>


        BIG WEEK

Get our weekly newsletter

  *
    Email

  *
    First Name

  *
    Last Name

*

<http://48hills.org/>

ABOUT US
48hills.org is the official publication of the non-profit San Francisco
Progressive Media Company.
Contact Us <http://48hills.org/contact/>
Advertise <http://48hills.org/advertise-with-us/>
Contact us: info@48hills.org <mailto:info@48hills.org>

FOLLOW US
// <https://www.facebook.com/48hills> // <https://twitter.com/48hills>

  * Best of the Bay <http://48hills.org/sections/best-of-the-bay/>
  * Contact <http://48hills.org/contact/>
  * About <http://48hills.org/about/>
  * Newsletter <http://48hills.org/newsletter/>
  * Advertise With Us <http://48hills.org/advertise-with-us/>
  * Shop <http://48hills.org/store/>
  * Donate <http://48hills.org/support-donate/>

© 48hills
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

:)
