Timeline <https://timeline.com/?source=logo-lo_c9c5f5ebb63f---cf5a12c2a7ad>
Follow
<https://twitter.com/Timeline_Now><https://facebook.com/timelinenews>
Sign in / Sign up
<https://medium.com/m/signin?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Ftimeline.com%2Ffor-more-than-100-years-soma-has-been-home-to-the-homeless-5e2d014bdd92>
Next story


        This woman was told she couldn’t eat at NYC’s fanciest
        restaurant so she brought her whole squad

<https://timeline.com/womens-club-sorosis-delmonicos-abc1b5964af7?source=read_next_metabar----------41>
29

  * Share
  *
    29

  *
*

Go to the profile of Meagan Day

<https://timeline.com/@meaganday?source=post_header_lockup>
Meagan Day
<https://timeline.com/@meaganday?source=post_header_lockup>BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Staff writer for Timeline. Features editor for Full Stop.
Jun 29

------------------------------------------------------------------------


  For more than 100 years, SoMa has been home to the homeless


    Waves of new residents want that to change

Men cross the street at 6th and Mission in the heart of the South of
Market (SoMa) district in San Francisco. (Jeff Enlow/Timeline)

/By //Meagan Day/ <http://medium.com/@meaganday>

In 2015, the mortgage banker-turned-restaurateur Adam Mesnick — 
described in the /San Francisco Chronicle/ as “a San Francisco success
story” — sent a letter to his neighbors in the South of Market
neighborhood. “I have been a SoMa resident and business owner since
2009,” he wrote. “Let’s make SoMa a place where children don’t need to
see needles and shit.”

A photo of the letter was uploaded to NextDoor.com, where SoMa residents
were already engaged in heated conversation about the area’s homeless
population. “I’ve been in SoMa for three years,” wrote one commenter,
“and I’ve had it with people who have decided they don’t want REAL help
but want to take over our parks, front doors and alleyways as their own
private toilets.”

Concerned SoMa residents arranged to meet at a swank coffeeshop called
Sightglass, situated in a converted industrial building. In the months
that followed, they formed a group called Western SoMa Voice, which held
its first meeting
<http://hoodline.com/2016/01/fed-up-with-crime-and-encampments-western-soma-locals-launch-new-neighborhood-group>
earlier this year at a private event space called The Box SF. There,
residents brainstormed solutions — around a conference table made
<http://www.evenues.com/meeting-space/main-gate-room-San-Francisco/1864>
of 335-year-old doors from a Chinese village — to the problem of
homelessness.

Left: Homeless men rest behind a building in SoMa. (Dorothea
Lange/Library of Congress) Right: The Box SF is a high-end event space
in SoMa. (Jeff Enlow/Timeline)

The Box SF’s owner Mark Sackett, who normally rents out the space for
$2,000 a day, told Hoodline
<http://hoodline.com/2016/01/fed-up-with-crime-and-encampments-western-soma-locals-launch-new-neighborhood-group>,
“I thought with all these condos and apartments and all this development
South of Market, it would actually be getting better. But the City and
County of San Francisco… fit all the social services in between Sixth
and Eighth streets and Howard and Market.” This includes multiple
shelters, case management centers and outreach initiatives. Sackett’s
frustration was echoed by NextDoor users, one of whom wrote, “The city
needs to move the ‘services’ they provide to these unfortunates.”

Warehouse conversions, airy lofts, repurposed lumber, and rickety
freight elevators are huge selling points in SoMa. But with the
neighborhood’s gritty charm comes just plain grit.

Significant populations of homeless people have called SoMa home for
over a century. The social services were clustered there because the
neighborhood was the province of down-and-outs. And it still is. Today,
62 percent of the city’s 6,686 homeless live in supervisor district six,
which is made of largely of SoMa. At the same time, the average rent
<https://www.rentjungle.com/average-rent-in-san-francisco-rent-trends/>
as of spring 2016 was $4,641.

The question seems to be: Whose neighborhood is it really?

Left: A women hails an Uber outside the Intercontinental Hotel in the
SoMa, 2016. (Jeff Enlow/Timeline) Right: Dorothea Lange’s famous image
of a man waiting for food at the White Angel Breadline, 1933. (Dorothea
Lange/Library of Congress)

Ever since the tracks were laid, SoMa has been on the wrong side of them.

When engineer James O’Farrell proposed cutting a long and unusually
broad thoroughfare through nascent San Francisco in 1847, landowners
threatened to lynch him for dramatically slicing up their property. He
fled by boat to Sausalito, laying low while workers leveled the sand
dunes to make way for the “grand promenade.” From its inception, Market
Street was a bitterly protested divide.

Market Street and 3rd Street, Circa 1856. (SFMTA)

The avenue not only physically partitioned the city, but quickly became
an emblem of social division. In the 1880s, tracks running up the middle
spawned a nickname: the Slot. “North of the Slot were the theaters,
hotels, and shopping district, the banks and the staid, respectable
business houses,” wrote Jack London in 1909. “South of the Slot were the
factories, slums, laundries, machine-shops, boiler works, and the abodes
of the working class.”

The steep-sloped neighborhoods north of Market Street were given
pleasant names: Hayes Valley, Nob Hill, Pacific Heights. But South of
the Slot were large and indistinguishable flatlands, occupied year-round
mainly by working-class Irish, English, and German immigrants, and
seasonally by migratory casual laborers and destitute hobos. Small
factories, canneries, butcher shops, gas works, warehouses, and
foundries made up the bulk of new development. The last remaining
affluent families, who had built elegant estates in doomed Rincon Hill,
fled the area.

In the 1860s, businesses in South of Market began catering to migratory
workers who came to San Francisco in between stints on farms, railroads,
or in the gold mines. Flophouses and cheap hotels sprang up, and the
area became a single men’s playground, with pool halls, saloons and
gambling houses interspersed with the factories. In 1872, an observer
noted the concentration of vagrants in the area, whom he called “blanket
men,” adding that they seemed mostly to be “runaway sailors,” “old
soldiers,” and “bankrupt German scene painters.”

The area was largely inhabited by unskilled workers, who slept in
flophouses if they had the money, or on the street if they didn’t. In
1880, writes Alvin Averbach in his economic history of the neighborhood,
“nearly one-third of the city’s boarding houses, a quarter of its
hotels, and half of its 655 lodging houses were found there… troops of
the industrial army were called up, as it were, for active duty.” In his
book on the homeless in American history, Kenneth L. Kusmer called SoMa
“the most important center of transient and casual labor on the West Coast.”

Refugee camps dotted the city after the 1906 earth quake. This one was
located just outside SoMa at 15th and Market. (California Historical
Society)

When the 1906 earthquake destroyed much of the neighborhood’s
infrastructure, the area’s character became even more defined. By 1907,
58 new hotels and 80 new lodging houses had been built. The city rezoned
the area for industrial use — abandoning any remaining dream that it
might be become a middle-class residential neighborhood.

“Here grew up the hoboes’ institutions,” writes Alvin Averbach in /San
Francisco’s South of Market District, 1850–1950,/ “the hotels and
lodging houses whose proprietors acted as bankers so that men spending
their regular off-seasons in San Francisco had safekeeping for their
money and would not spend it on a single spree; saloons which fed their
patrons smorgasbord ‘free lunches’ for ten or fifteen cents and
sometimes doubled as informal employment agencies; and pawnshops on
Third, lower Market, and The Embarcadero where a hobo might put up a
tool or some clothing to pay for food, drink, or shelter when he could
not stretch his winter’s ‘stake’ far enough.”

By the 1920s, relief agencies and charities had begun to appear
alongside the businesses that catered to the SoMa homeless. The
Salvation Army, Volunteers of America Community Kitchen, Canon Kip
Community House and St. Patrick’s Church Shelter all began to offer
services for SoMa’s homeless and marginally housed. For a brief moment,
the arrangement worked: the city provided funds to these charities,
which sustained the down-and-out, and employers lined the streets of
SoMa to hire all but the least fit men. The population of SoMa during
this period was 80% male.

The men of 1930’s and 40’s SoMa struggled were no strangers to alcohol.
Left: (Dorothea Lange/Library of Congress) Right: (San Francisco
Public Library)

But once the Great Depression set in, cash-strapped employers no longer
trawled the area for hired hands, and vagrancy was no longer a temporary
condition of seasonal workers. During the 1930s, SoMa became Skid Row,
home to thousands of men “continuously out of work and living near
subsistence level in pool rooms, cheap restaurants, flophouse-hotels,
bars, wine stores, on the sidewalks, and in the missions,” according to
Averbach.

World War II improved the prospects of the remaining working-class white
families, and they moved elsewhere. Poor Asian and Latino immigrants
took their place. SoMa became, more than ever, the province of
marginalized people and social outcasts. This increasingly included gay
bars, particularly those catered to leather sexuality and BDSM.

Politicians and real estate developers realized SoMa was undervalued.
The San Francisco Redevelopment Agency started floating the idea of a
SoMa renewal as early as the late 1960s, and plans for the Yerba Buena
Arts Center — intended to inaugurate a broader revitalization trend — 
were shored up in the late 1970s. The developers were surprised by the
resistance from the locals, however. Disposable and blighted to the
outsider’s eye, SoMa was fiercely guarded by its inhabitants.

Then, in the 1980s, AIDS began to ravage both the city’s gay male
population and its poor, homeless and marginally housed people. “The
South of Market neighborhood became a geographic magnet for AIDS-related
apprehension,” writes
<https://books.google.com/books?id=XWluiz9JesUC&pg=PA247&lpg=PA247&dq=gayle+rubin+miracle+mile&source=bl&ots=fMFKcI1oQH&sig=dvOEhIpaHYkPjLKanxXyLuEhMLk&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwjytujp5svNAhVU9GMKHSeYB_MQ6AEILTAD#v=onepage&q=gayle%20rubin%20miracle%20mile&f=false>
historian Gayle Rubin. The city began to regard SoMa as a public health
hazard, rather than just a stubborn community of undesirable people
living cheaply on valuable land. And as residents and regulars began
dying off, local resistance fell away.

New developments are sprouting up all over SoMa. Average rent in the
neighborhood is $4,641 (Jeff Enlow/Timeline)

The 1990s saw the first wave of warehouse-to-loft conversions, fitted
for dot-commers with an anti-suburban ethos and money to burn.
“Development was viewed by most as a win/win proposition,” explains
<https://sfmoderncondos.com/sf-conversion-lofts-for-sale/> the SF Modern
Condo Project, which looks kindly on the redevelopment of SoMa, “for
both home buyers, who gained historic and unique living spaces, and also
for the city of San Francisco because abandoned or blighted properties
were transformed into highly desirable destinations that generated
property taxes for the city coffers.”

Still, the homeless services that had been there since the 1920s
remained, largely because no other neighborhood wanted them.
Additionally, the streets were still wide and flat, and the relative
lack of density was still well-suited to street life. The homeless
presence was fairly constant.

By 2001, the dot-com bubble had burst, and gentrification was halted—but
only temporarily. A few years later, the city’s economy bounced back
with a vengeance, and people like Adam Mesnick and his NextDoor cohorts
moved in. The situation, they say, is dire.

The number of 311 reports in SoMa has shot up recently, due in part to a
new mobile reporting app.

Of course, such are the difficulties of turning a neighborhood long
replete with “blanket men” into a family-friendly urban village. With
the wealth gap growing at breakneck speed in the city — for some the new
Gold Rush, for others the new Great Depression — it’s no surprise that
SoMa is a battleground.

No one wants their children to look at needles and shit, as Mesnick put
it. But the homeless aren’t taking over; the affluent are. In fact,
according to the city’s own numbers, the number of homeless people
citywide has only gone up roughly seven percent in the last ten years,
from 6,248 in 2005 to 6,686 in 2015. At the same time, the average
household earnings went up from $88,388 in 2005 to $126,022 in 2014–30
percent. Meanwhile, the percentage of $1 million-plus homes in the city
has gone up by 38 percent just since 2012. Perhaps it’s the proximity of
homeless people to those homes that is creating the current crisis.

For more than a century, shelving the city’s homeless in SoMa was a
solution. Now their presence is the problem.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<http://eepurl.com/bErIAj>

    Connect with us on — Facebook
    <https://www.facebook.com/timelinenews> • Twitter
    <https://twitter.com/timeline_now> • Medium <http://medium.com/timeline>

San Francisco
<https://timeline.com/tagged/san-francisco?source=post>Homeless
<https://timeline.com/tagged/homeless?source=post>SFHomelessProject
<https://timeline.com/tagged/sfhomelessproject?source=post>
29
#
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Go to the profile of Meagan Day

<https://timeline.com/@meaganday?source=footer_card>


      Meagan Day <https://timeline.com/@meaganday>

Staff writer for Timeline. Features editor for Full Stop.

#
Follow
Timeline

<https://timeline.com/?source=footer_card>


      Timeline <https://timeline.com/?source=footer_card>

News in Context

<https://medium.com/nestle-usa/the-700-chocolate-bars-that-could-change-packaging-acce53e6551a?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-39-------1%3A1%3Ac3174cb63cd6455a9fd9b6d0a7e43b5e_5f61e3e9%3A8ZZ7VHNS%3ArKSNLFt8Kf0xpKuYUWepgsOoTzOQDN3plMsrhTf_%3A4GIC0B4U>
Promoted story
The 700 Chocolate Bars that Could Change Packaging

<https://medium.com/nestle-usa/the-700-chocolate-bars-that-could-change-packaging-acce53e6551a?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-39-------1%3A1%3Ac3174cb63cd6455a9fd9b6d0a7e43b5e_5f61e3e9%3A8ZZ7VHNS%3ArKSNLFt8Kf0xpKuYUWepgsOoTzOQDN3plMsrhTf_%3A4GIC0B4U>
Go to the profile of Nestlé US

<https://medium.com/@NestleUS>
Nestlé US
<https://medium.com/@NestleUS?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-39-------1%3A1%3Ac3174cb63cd6455a9fd9b6d0a7e43b5e_5f61e3e9%3A8ZZ7VHNS%3ArKSNLFt8Kf0xpKuYUWepgsOoTzOQDN3plMsrhTf_%3A4GIC0B4U>
8
<https://timeline.com/at-the-salvation-army-in-1928-homeless-men-wore-suits-and-hats-9e7db4ae7d9c?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-45>
More on San Francisco from Timeline
At the Salvation Army in 1928, homeless men wore suits and hats

<https://timeline.com/at-the-salvation-army-in-1928-homeless-men-wore-suits-and-hats-9e7db4ae7d9c?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-45>
Go to the profile of Hanne Elisabeth Tidnam

<https://timeline.com/@hanne_tidnam>
Hanne Elisabeth Tidnam
<https://timeline.com/@hanne_tidnam?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-45>
8
<https://timeline.com/vice-presidents-losers-trump-pence-6106fc595e6c?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-40>
Related reads
Veeps used to be total losers. Here’s how that changed.

<https://timeline.com/vice-presidents-losers-trump-pence-6106fc595e6c?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-40>
Go to the profile of Meagan Day

<https://timeline.com/@meaganday>
Meagan Day
<https://timeline.com/@meaganday?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-40>
17
Responses
Write a response…
Unknown user
No responses yet
Show all responses

×

Don’t miss Meagan Day’s next story
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Meagan DayMeagan Day
