Thanks for checking out our new design, please let us know if you have
feedback
<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdOO_VWVDQBuiuRD1Fv-bPphJqfu9woDLdbDGn6cElU_mwtNA/viewform>


<http://sfist.com/>

<mailto:tips@sfist.com>

<https://www.facebook.com/pages/SFist/114102351977699>

<http://twitter.com/sfist>

<http://instagram.com/sfist>

  *

    SFist is a website about San Francisco


    View

    Pretty | Blog
  * Arts & Entertainment

    <http://sfist.com/arts>
  * Food

    <http://sfist.com/food>
  * News

    <http://sfist.com/news>
  * Popular

    <http://sfist.com/popular.php>
  * Advertising

    <http://gothamistllc.com/>
  * Contact

    <http://sfist.com/contact.php>
  * Newsletter

    <http://eepurl.com/yIS4z>
  * RSS Feed

    <http://sfist.com/index.rdf>
  * Staff

    <http://sfist.com/staff.php>
  * Our Cities

    <#>
      o Chicago

        <http://www.chicagoist.com/>
      o London

        <http://www.londonist.com/>
      o Los Angeles

        <http://www.laist.com/>
      o New York City

        <http://www.gothamist.com/>
      o San Francisco

        <http://www.sfist.com/>
      o Shanghai

        <http://www.shanghaiist.com/>
      o Toronto

        <http://www.torontoist.com/>
      o Washington DC

        <http://www.dcist.com/>
  *

    <mailto:tips@sfist.com>

    <https://www.facebook.com/pages/SFist/114102351977699>

    <http://twitter.com/sfist>

    <http://instagram.com/sfist>


  Former Mayors Dianne Feinstein And Art Agnos Discuss Root Causes Of
  Homelessness, Other Mayors' Failures

by Jay Barmann <http://sfist.com/author/Jay%20Barmann> in News
<http://sfist.com/news>	on Jun 29, 2016 12:35 pm

feinstein-agnos-homeless.jpg
/Former mayors Dianne Feinstein and Art Agnos, in their day. Photos via
Wikimedia and ArtAgnos.com

/

While homelessness as a nationwide phenomenon existed under other names
throughout the 20th Century, it became a visible, chronic epidemic that
affected a range of different populations beginning in the early 1980's.
The SF Homeless Project <https://www.facebook.com/sfhomelessproject/>
seeks to bring the issue to the forefront of public dialogue again this
week, in part because despite our city government's efforts to house the
unhoused and address the various issues that lead to individuals ending
up on the street, there has been a recent public perception that the
problem is growing and can't be solved by current policies. It's
instructive to hear from the two former San Francisco mayors who
presided over the beginnings of this crisis in that decade, Senator
Dianne Feinstein and Art Agnos, and how their understandings of this
political hot potato, and its solutions, have evolved in the decades
since their tenures.

We've already
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/27/san_francisco_homeless_history_1982.php>
discussed
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/28/homelessness_language_and_coverage.php> in
the last couple days on SFist how we can trace the phenomenon of
widespread homelessness to the defunding of federally subsidized public
housing and the emptying of state-run mental health facilities in the
late 1970's, and we also can't discount the wider availability of hard
drugs like heroin in the open market in this era as well, in addition to
the return of tens of thousands of Vietnam vets suffering from PTSD as
other contributing factors.

In the early days of the crisis, though, PTSD was less well understood,
addiction was only whispered about, and the perception was that
homelessness was a temporary problem afflicting the recently jobless, or
alcoholic, or downtrodden. In Feinstein's era, one of her
administration's early solutions was simply finding people free hotel
beds for the night, for instance.

"Attitudes toward homelessness have changed significantly over the past
30 years," Senator Feinstein tells SFist. "There is a better
understanding [now] that individuals and families experience
homelessness for different reasons and you need different strategies to
help different populations."

Feinstein notes one estimate that half of San Francisco’s homeless
population is experiencing mental illness or addiction, which could be
anywhere from 3,000 to 5,000 individuals depending on which homeless
population count you trust, and she advocates for what we now call the
Navigation Center model — the second of which opened in San Francisco
this week
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/29/second_homeless_navigation_center_o.php> —
where individuals can come with friends and loved ones and the "root
causes" of homelessness are treated on site with mental health
counseling and substance abuse treatment along with possible job and
housing placement. "Otherwise," Feinstein says, "individuals will just
fall back into homelessness."

Former Mayor Art Agnos (1988-1992) led the charge with such a model,
though he was arguably too ahead of his time and the funding and
wherewithal to put his administration's Beyond Shelter plan proved too
daunting. A subsequent encampment of hundreds of homeless gathered
outside City Hall waiting for shelter became derided in the media and by
other politicians as "Camp Agnos," and arguably cost Agnos a 1991 bid at
reelection.

Agnos tells SFist that Beyond Shelter failed "because it was seen as the
'Agnos plan' instead of 'the San Francisco plan.' Like today, its intent
and accomplishments were too often clouded by a media focus on
short-term tent encampments rather than the plan's actual development of
long-term supportive and permanent housing." Another obstacle was that
the budget for homeless services and housing was less than one-fifth of
what it is today, and it's likely that to fully realize the idea through
the Navigation Center model, our current annual budget of $241 million a
year is likely to rise.

To the issue of mental health services, Senator Feinstein, like many
advocates, points to President Reagan's vast cuts in domestic spending
in the 1980's. "At the peak in 1959, there were 37,500 patients in state
psychiatric hospitals in California," Feinstein says. "Today, there are
fewer than 5,000. There is clearly a significant gap in our ability to
provide care for people experiencing mental illness." It should be noted
that while policies around involuntarily committing people to mental
health institutions have changed since 1959, California's population is
also more than double what it was then — 38.8 million versus 15.9 million.

In San Francisco, Feinstein says she remembers the closure of state
facilities "under the guise of community care" in the 1970's, with the
hope that the non-violent mentally ill would land in locally funded
group homes. "These homes subsequently closed," she says. "Many patients
had nowhere to go but the streets. Now, there is virtually nothing."

Feinstein points to the Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act,
which was signed into law in 2008 and which requires insurance companies
to cover mental health and addiction services as they do other services.
"Despite this law," she says, "it is still too difficult for people to
access the care they need. It's too expensive and can be hard to find a
mental health professional accepting patients."

And she adds, "Unfortunately, county jails have become our de facto
mental hospitals. In Los Angeles, it's estimated that 20 percent of
inmates in county jail — more than 4,000 — are experiencing mental illness."

An uptick of homelessness in the early '90's and the election of former
police chief Frank Jordan to the mayor's office led directly to his
notorious Matrix program, which all homeless advocates and many
politicians today believe was a moral misstep that did little to stem
the tide of homelessness, and merely squandered public resources on
criminalizing peoples' existence on the street.

Agnos points to both Jordan's Matrix program — which was largely
continued
<http://www.sfgate.com/crime/article/S-F-Abandons-Matrix-Program-But-Brown-says-2999337.php>
under Willie Brown though he initially campaigned against it — and to
Mayor Gavin Newsom's Sit/Lie ordinance <http://sfist.com/tags/sit-lie>
that essentially outlawed loitering for the first time, as both failed
and "impotent" policies. "Subsequent mayors pieced off what they and
their experts saw as doable or politically palatable [from my existing
plan]," Agnos says. "As a result, the City and its homeless have been
whiplashed with different, sometimes contradictory homeless policies —
not to mention using it as a political wedge issue as with Sit-Lie."

The lack of availability of affordable housing is another obvious root
cause of homelessness in an expensive and crowded city like San
Francisco. Senator Feinstein is adamant that family homelessness is
often caused by an inability to pay rent, and she wants to address the
fact that there's been an estimated 70 percent increase in the number of
homeless children across the country since 2006. "In the Bay Area, it's
estimated that 226 families, including 2,759 children, are experiencing
homelessness," she says. "This number is much higher than the number
reported by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
because it includes families living in motels or doubled-up with friends
or acquaintances."

"San Francisco is now the most expensive city in the country," Feinstein
says. "This is causing an increase in family homelessness, in addition
to setting up the next generation of chronic homelessness." And she
adds, "The recession pushed millions of families over the edge and many
never recovered."

Without mentioning names, Feinstein implies that more should have been
done under Gavin Newsom's and Mayor Ed Lee's tenures when it came to
tapping the tech sector to help with the housing crisis. "As technology
companies moved into the City and the Bay Area's economy grew
significantly, greater investments should have been made in affordable
housing," Feinstein says. "It's a big problem when our City's teachers
and police officers can't afford to live in the communities they serve.
While the City is trying to catch up, it's not easy to do."

Much like Feinstein, former mayor now Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom
sounds a somewhat pessimistic note, acknowledging the broader societal
problems that underpin homelessness, and how impossible it will be for
any local government to solve the issue completely. In the decade
following his administration's launch of a ten-year plan to address
homelessness, roughly 3,000 units of supportive housing for the homeless
were built, but that hasn't been nearly enough to stem the tide of those
in need of it. In a 2014 Chronicle piece
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/archive/item/A-decade-of-homelessness-Thousands-in-S-F-30431.php>,
looking back on those ten years, Newsom said, "There’s a mythology that
you can — quote unquote — end homelessness at any moment, but there are
new people coming in [to a city all the time], suffering through the
cycles of their lives. It’s the manifestation of complete, abject
failure as a society. We’ll never solve this at City Hall."

Agnos acknowledges the ongoing and awkward issue that the more
supportive housing you try to build around the city, the more pushback
you're going to get from local residents who live near any potential
sites. "The development and siting of supportive and permanent housing
is a major challenge because the population it is designed for —
alcoholics, drug abusers, the mentally ill, among others — [these
constitute] the most unpopular group of needy Americans in our nation's
modern history," he says.

The former mayor says he experienced NIMBY pushback during his
administration when he proposed a Multi-Service Center not unlike
today's Navigation Centers at 5th and Bryant Streets, in what was
largely a warehouse district at the time. It was met with protests, he
says, because people said it "would hurt the warehouse industry."

Thus, Agnos prescribes conviction, above all, for current and future
city leaders. "No city in America cares more and has tried harder to
address this issue," he says. "We are a smart, tolerant, innovative,
progressive city with the knowledge and many of the tools to address
[homelessness]. But while we may know what to do, the solutions cannot
be accomplished fast and certainly cannot be done if the conviction and
commitment is weak. Politicians must have the courage to push to do the
right thing even when it is not popular and neighborhoods must have
commitment to accept their share of the responsibility for the
successful solution."

/More than 70 Bay Area news organizations are participating in this
media project that launches in full June 29. Follow the SF Homeless
Project on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/sfhomelessproject> and
Twitter <https://twitter.com/bayareahomeless>./

*Previously:* We've Been Talking About Homelessness Like It's New And
Like It's The 'Worst Ever' For 30 Years
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/28/homelessness_language_and_coverage.php>

Contact the author <http://sfist.com/staff.php> of this article or email
tips@sfist.com <mailto:tips@sfist.com> with further questions, comments
or tips.

  * art agnos <http://sfist.com/tags/artagnos>
  * dianne feinstein <http://sfist.com/tags/diannefeinstein>
  * gavin newsom <http://sfist.com/tags/gavinnewsom>
  * homelessness <http://sfist.com/tags/homelessness>
  * sf homeless project <http://sfist.com/tags/sfhomelessproject>
  *


    Other Interesting Stories

  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
by Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Sponsored Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
.
Fortune Builders
<http://www.fortunebuildersinfo.com/Direct/?did=ee3603b5-8d5f-e411-93f1-a0369f1303c6&contact0state=CA&Covid=44787286-8c82-4f6f-bd77-fb8caecf927b&MID=8368850&utm_SITEID={Site}>Free
Real Estate Event in San Francisco Dec. 7 - 10Fortune Builders
<http://www.fortunebuildersinfo.com/Direct/?did=ee3603b5-8d5f-e411-93f1-a0369f1303c6&contact0state=CA&Covid=44787286-8c82-4f6f-bd77-fb8caecf927b&MID=8368850&utm_SITEID={Site}>
Undo
DirectExpose
<http://track.bidprotech.com/lp?cid=ff8080815400195a015400a9a1fa0087&ssid=ff8080815064ba880150656150510010&ext_param1=talas&ext_param3=S_TS_DE_US_D_Younger_v1_1611_WL_safe%EF%BB%BF%EF%BB%BF-Top+25+Stars+Who+Look+Much+Younger+Than+They+Actually+Are-http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F8a9a5dbfbfbd8f55208b616bf5783759.jpg&ext_pubid=gothamist-sfist&ext_param5=S_TS_DE_US_D_Younger_v1_1611_WL_safe%EF%BB%BF>Top
25 Stars Who Look Much Younger Than They Actually AreDirectExpose
<http://track.bidprotech.com/lp?cid=ff8080815400195a015400a9a1fa0087&ssid=ff8080815064ba880150656150510010&ext_param1=talas&ext_param3=S_TS_DE_US_D_Younger_v1_1611_WL_safe%EF%BB%BF%EF%BB%BF-Top+25+Stars+Who+Look+Much+Younger+Than+They+Actually+Are-http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F8a9a5dbfbfbd8f55208b616bf5783759.jpg&ext_pubid=gothamist-sfist&ext_param5=S_TS_DE_US_D_Younger_v1_1611_WL_safe%EF%BB%BF>
Undo
The Business Journals with HSBC
<http://www.bizjournals.com/bizjournals/news/2016/11/08/looking-ahead-in-a-fast-changing-economic.html?ana=rss_hsbc216186-4_tabo&utm_distil=hsbc216186-4>Looking
ahead in a fast-changing economic environmentThe Business Journals with
HSBC
<http://www.bizjournals.com/bizjournals/news/2016/11/08/looking-ahead-in-a-fast-changing-economic.html?ana=rss_hsbc216186-4_tabo&utm_distil=hsbc216186-4>
Undo
Rates To Riches Referrals
<http://ratestoriches.com/rates/?h1=Compare-Todays-Featured-Savings-Accounts&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>Compare
Savings Accounts Rates and Earn More Interest Today. Rates so g…Rates To
Riches Referrals
<http://ratestoriches.com/rates/?h1=Compare-Todays-Featured-Savings-Accounts&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>
Undo
Mosaic Home Solar Loan
<http://homesolaradvisor.net/2015/04/03/mosaic-is-first-solar-company-to-get-it-right-2/?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>Invest
in Solar and slash your utility bills straight awayMosaic Home Solar
Loan
<http://homesolaradvisor.net/2015/04/03/mosaic-is-first-solar-company-to-get-it-right-2/?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>
Undo
Answers
<http://www.answers.com/browse/click.php?source=tb&param3=www.answers.com/article/31078489/homeless-man-builds-incredible-secret-home-under-train-station&param4=tb-us-de-enter&param1=gothamist-sfist&param2=He+Lives+Under+A+Train+Station%2C+But+Wait+Till+You+See+His+Home&param5=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F84f6e6a7d2759735ff5075b3dc169ea0.jpg>He
Lives Under A Train Station, But Wait Till You See His HomeAnswers
<http://www.answers.com/browse/click.php?source=tb&param3=www.answers.com/article/31078489/homeless-man-builds-incredible-secret-home-under-train-station&param4=tb-us-de-enter&param1=gothamist-sfist&param2=He+Lives+Under+A+Train+Station%2C+But+Wait+Till+You+See+His+Home&param5=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F84f6e6a7d2759735ff5075b3dc169ea0.jpg>
Undo
by Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>
Sponsored Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>
Additional Stories
<http://sfist.com/2016/03/09/ask_a_san_francisco_native_whats_yo.php>Ask
A San Francisco Native: What's Your Favorite Place To Get A Burrito?:
SFist <http://sfist.com/2016/03/09/ask_a_san_francisco_native_whats_yo.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/15/valencia_street_cyclists_punch_and.php>Valencia
Street Cyclists Punch And Rob Woman Thursday: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/15/valencia_street_cyclists_punch_and.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/13/gang_jumps_and_beats_chinatown_pede.php>Gang Jumps
And Beats Chinatown Pedestrian: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/13/gang_jumps_and_beats_chinatown_pede.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/03/wiener_vs_kim_already_most_expensiv.php>Wiener
vs. Kim Already Most Expensive District 11 State Senate Race Ever: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/03/wiener_vs_kim_already_most_expensiv.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/01/13/the_best_hook-up_bars_in_sf.php>The Best
Hook-Up Bars In SF: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/01/13/the_best_hook-up_bars_in_sf.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2015/12/03/the_best_cheap_eats_in_sf_for_10_or.php>The
22 Best Cheap Eats In SF For $10 Or Less (That Aren't Burgers, Pizza,
Tacos, Or Burritos): SFist
<http://sfist.com/2015/12/03/the_best_cheap_eats_in_sf_for_10_or.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/07/29/best_classic_san_francisco_food.php>The 18
Must-Have Classic San Francisco Dishes: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/07/29/best_classic_san_francisco_food.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/02/18/best_buffets_all_you_can_eat_san_fr.php>SF's 10
Best All-You-Can-Eat Deals: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/02/18/best_buffets_all_you_can_eat_san_fr.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/02/26/apartment_sadness_share_a_soma_two-.php>Apartment
Sadness: Share A SoMa Two-Bedroom With Three Others, Wall Partitions:
SFist <http://sfist.com/2016/02/26/apartment_sadness_share_a_soma_two-.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/07/06/heres_what_employees_of_google_appl.php>Here's
What Facebook, Google, And Apple Employees Really Think About
Tech-Shuttle 'Hubs'…
<http://sfist.com/2016/07/06/heres_what_employees_of_google_appl.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/14/thieves_pilfering_mail_with_usps_ma.php>Thieves
Pilfering Mail With USPS Master Key Still On The Loose: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/14/thieves_pilfering_mail_with_usps_ma.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/05/20/jumbo_747_definitely_going_to_burni.php>Jumbo
747 Definitely Going to Burning Man This Year : SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/05/20/jumbo_747_definitely_going_to_burni.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/30/apartment_sadness_2400_for_crap_stu.php>Apartment
Sadness: $2400 For Crap House In El Cerrito: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/30/apartment_sadness_2400_for_crap_stu.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/28/best_pasta_san_francisco.php>The 13 Most
Delicious Pasta Spots In San Francisco: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/28/best_pasta_san_francisco.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/04/13/the_halal_guys_sf_ofarrell_review.php>The
Halal Guys In SF: An Admittedly Early Review: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/04/13/the_halal_guys_sf_ofarrell_review.php>
Undo
Sponsored Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>
Additional Stories
<http://sfist.com/2016/03/09/ask_a_san_francisco_native_whats_yo.php>Ask
A San Francisco Native: What's Your Favorite Place To Get A Burrito?:
SFist <http://sfist.com/2016/03/09/ask_a_san_francisco_native_whats_yo.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/15/valencia_street_cyclists_punch_and.php>Valencia
Street Cyclists Punch And Rob Woman Thursday: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/15/valencia_street_cyclists_punch_and.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/13/gang_jumps_and_beats_chinatown_pede.php>Gang Jumps
And Beats Chinatown Pedestrian: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/13/gang_jumps_and_beats_chinatown_pede.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/03/wiener_vs_kim_already_most_expensiv.php>Wiener
vs. Kim Already Most Expensive District 11 State Senate Race Ever: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/03/wiener_vs_kim_already_most_expensiv.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/01/13/the_best_hook-up_bars_in_sf.php>The Best
Hook-Up Bars In SF: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/01/13/the_best_hook-up_bars_in_sf.php>
Undo
by Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>
  © 2003-2016 Gothamist LLC <http://gothamistllc.com/>. All rights
reserved. Terms of Use & Privacy Policy
<http://www.gothamistllc.com/mediakit/privacy_legal.php>.
Close this video ad
Never show video ads
Cancel Send

Pause
Current Time 0:15
/
Duration Time 0:30
Remaining Time -0:14
Stream TypeLIVE
Loaded: 0%
Progress: 0%
0:15
Fullscreen
00:00
Unmute
Playback Rate

1
Subtitles

  * subtitles off

Captions

  * captions settings
  * captions off

Chapters

  * Chapters

Foreground

Background

Window

Font Size

Text Edge Style

Font Family

DefaultsDone

