<http://www.businessinsider.com/>


    Tech Insider <http://www.businessinsider.com/sai>

  This nonprofit is fighting to house all homeless children in San
  Francisco by 2020 — and tech companies are helping

<http://www.businessinsider.com/author/matt-rosoff>

  * Matt Rosoff <http://www.businessinsider.com/author/matt-rosoff>
  *
    // <mailto:mrosoff@businessinsider.com> //
    <http://www.businessinsider.com/author/matt-rosoff/rss> //
    <http://twitter.com/MattRosoff> //
    <https://plus.google.com/u/1/100075356758919993129?rel=author>

  * Jun. 29, 2016, 8:00 AM
  * 1,913

  *
    /

    / facebook

    <https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=http://www.businessinsider.com/google-twitter-salesforce-help-hamilton-fight-homelessness-in-san-francisco-2016-6>

  *
    /

    / linkedin

    <http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=http://www.businessinsider.com/google-twitter-salesforce-help-hamilton-fight-homelessness-in-san-francisco-2016-6&title=This%20nonprofit%20is%20fighting%20to%20house%20all%20homeless%20children%20in%20San%20Francisco%20by%202020%20%E2%80%94%20and%20tech%20companies%20are%20helping&summary=Hamilton%20House%20wants%20to%20get%20all%20families%20with%20kids%20off%20the%20streets%20of%20San%20Francisco%20by%202020.%20Companies%20like%20Salesforce,%20Google,%20and%20Twitter%20are%20helping.>

  *
    /

    / twitter

    <http://twitter.com/share?url=http://read.bi/290ldsd&via=sai&text=How+tech+companies+are+helping+the+fight+to+end+family+homelessness+%23SFHomelessProject>

  *
    /

    / email

    <#>
  *
    /

    / print

    <javascript:window.print()>

A Hamilton Family Center participant at a Mother's Day eventHamilton
Family Center

According to the common stereotype, San Francisco tech companies are
full of white guys who grew up in the burbs, went to expensive colleges,
and are here only for the high-paying jobs and bars with fancy beer.

Every few months, a new insensitive comment about homeless people goes
viral
<https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2016/feb/17/san-francisco-tech-open-letter-i-dont-want-to-see-homeless-riff-raff>
on social media <http://greggopman.com/the-stupidest-thing-i-ever-did/>,
leading to a new round of recriminations.

Like most stereotypes, it's largely bunk.

"I have met so many incredible passionate tech employees who have come
and poured out so much love onto the families we serve," says Debbie
Wilber, the director of development at the Hamilton Family Center
<https://hamiltonfamilycenter.org/>, a nonprofit that aims to end family
homelessness in San Francisco by 2020.

Hamilton is a proponent of "rehousing," which proposes that the best way
to reduce homelessness is to put people in homes.

This may sound obvious, but it's actually a relatively recent trend in
homeless policy. Until recently, the proposed solutions to homelessness
were "paternalistic," in Wilber's view, arguing that people needed to be
taught how to live in society before they could be granted a home.

"Most are homeless because of economics — they might have been poor, but
some sort of crisis pushed them over," Wilber says. Such crises include
the loss of a job (many homeless parents work multiple jobs) or an
illness in the family. "The solution is not 'teach a parenting class,'"
Wilber says. "The solution is provide housing."

Hamilton offers shelter for up to 75 families, but its main goal is to
get families off the streets permanently. To achieve this, it works with
homeless families to figure out budgeting and then matches them up with
appropriate low-income housing in the area. It provides rent subsidies
for up to 18 months.

HFC family 2 at mother's day eventA Hamilton Family Center family at a
Mother's Day event.Hamilton Family Center

If you're familiar with the crazy rent situation in San Francisco, you
might be surprised to learn that there is actually housing available for
low-income families — about one-third of the families Hamilton helps do
stay in the city, while two-thirds end up moving to other cities like
Vallejo or Stockton.

The big problem is connecting homeless families to the agencies that can
provide this housing, especially since the city was overloaded with
demand during the recession that ran from 2007 through 2011.

This is partly where tech companies are helping out.

Salesforce has worked with Hamilton to create a database of available
housing, and its employees frequently volunteer through the company's
1-1-1 program (which encourages employees to donate 1% of their time to
a nonprofit). A partnership between Hamilton and Google has helped the
San Francisco public-school district collect information about homeless
and at-risk students — more than 2,000 kids in the city's public schools
are homeless, about twice as many as were in 2007.

Salesforce volunteers at shelterSalesforce volunteers at a Hamilton
shelter.Hamilton Family Center

"We also have a great relationship with Twitter," Wilber says. The
company has contributed funding to Hamilton's facility in the
Tenderloin, as well as free marketing through promoted tweets.

The best relationships with tech companies are from multiple places.

"It's the funding, technical skill, product in some cases," Wilber says.
"Then it's volunteers connecting to work we do, ideally becoming
advocates. One of my hopes with the volunteer program is that folks come
and take whatever misconceptions and stereotypes they have, they learn
more about family homelessness and walk away advocates for our work."


      SEE ALSO: Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff on capitalism, community,
      and why he canceled his Facebook account
      <http://www.businessinsider.com/marc-benioff-salesforce-interview-with-business-insider-2016-6>



      NOW WATCH: We sleep much differently than our ancestors — here's
      why
      <http://www.businessinsider.com/sleep-8-hour-cycle-ancestors-myth-2016-11>

h

More: Twitter <http://www.businessinsider.com/category/twitter> Google
<http://www.businessinsider.com/category/google> Facebook
<http://www.businessinsider.com/category/facebook> San Francisco
<http://www.businessinsider.com/category/san-francisco> //
Homelessness

<http://www.businessinsider.com/category/homelessness> Hamilton Family
Center

<http://www.businessinsider.com/category/hamilton-family-center> SF
Homeless Project

<http://www.businessinsider.com/category/sf-homeless-project>

  *
    /

    / facebook

    <https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=http://www.businessinsider.com/google-twitter-salesforce-help-hamilton-fight-homelessness-in-san-francisco-2016-6>

  *
    /

    / linkedin

    <http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=http://www.businessinsider.com/google-twitter-salesforce-help-hamilton-fight-homelessness-in-san-francisco-2016-6&title=This%20nonprofit%20is%20fighting%20to%20house%20all%20homeless%20children%20in%20San%20Francisco%20by%202020%20%E2%80%94%20and%20tech%20companies%20are%20helping&summary=>

  *
    /

    / twitter

    <http://twitter.com/share?url=http://read.bi/290ldsd&via=sai&text=How+tech+companies+are+helping+the+fight+to+end+family+homelessness+%23SFHomelessProject>

  *
    /

    / email

    <#>
  *
    /

    / print

    <javascript:window.print()>

  
