  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * The Cannifornian

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

The Mercury News

<http://www.mercurynews.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local

    <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * The Cannifornian

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>


        Graves, Yu: Palantir, UCSF partner with Santa…
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/graves-yu-palantir-ucsf-partner-with-santa-clara-county-on-homelessness-breakthrough/>



Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/graves-yu-palantir-ucsf-partner-with-santa-clara-county-on-homelessness-breakthrough/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/graves-yu-palantir-ucsf-partner-with-santa-clara-county-on-homelessness-breakthrough/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/graves-yu-palantir-ucsf-partner-with-santa-clara-county-on-homelessness-breakthrough/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/graves-yu-palantir-ucsf-partner-with-santa-clara-county-on-homelessness-breakthrough/#print>
*

<#>

Trending:

  * Sherri Papini case
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/sherri-papini-consultant-asked-to-find-another-missing-california-mom/>

  * 49ers should’ve kept Smith
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/purdy-the-kap-vs-alex-argument-is-settled-and-its-become-obvious-the-49ers-made-the-wrong-choice/>

  * Kim K. to divorce?
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/is-kim-kardashian-plotting-to-divorce-kanye-west/>

  * Pitt vs. Jolie
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/brad-pitt-moves-to-seal-documents-in-angelina-jolie-custody-dispute/>

  * After cold snap, rain
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/bay-area-weather-after-cold-snap-rain-on-the-way/>

  * Bay Area poverty
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/more-bay-area-residents-struggling-than-poverty-statistics-indicate/>



News <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>


  Graves, Yu: Palantir, UCSF partner with Santa Clara County on
  homelessness breakthrough


Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/graves-yu-palantir-ucsf-partner-with-santa-clara-county-on-homelessness-breakthrough/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/graves-yu-palantir-ucsf-partner-with-santa-clara-county-on-homelessness-breakthrough/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/graves-yu-palantir-ucsf-partner-with-santa-clara-county-on-homelessness-breakthrough/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/graves-yu-palantir-ucsf-partner-with-santa-clara-county-on-homelessness-breakthrough/#print>
*

By Special to the Mercury News
<http://www.mercurynews.com/author/special-to-the-mercury-news/>	
June 28, 2016 at 9:02 am

In the birthplace of the lean startup philosophy, Santa Clara County is
thinking differently about its approach to combating homelessness.

Last July the county, with partners throughout the Bay Area, launched a
new initiative: Project Welcome Home. It combines an evidence-based
permanent, supportive housing strategy with the ethos of Silicon
Valley’s data- and outcome-driven approach at a critical moment for the
county.

Here’s how it works.

On any given night, more than 6,500 people are homeless in the county.
More than 2,200 of them are chronically homeless and suffering from
serious mental illness, chronic physical health issues, or other
disabling conditions.

Studies have shown that chronically homeless individuals consume a
disproportionate amount of government resources using safety net
services, such as emergency departments and jails. In fact, the most
costly 10 percent of homeless individuals in the county annually consume
more in services than it would cost to provide them with supportive
housing, which includes the health care, counseling and other services
they need to lead stable lives.

Targeting these individuals is an opportunity to both save money for the
county and improve clients’ health and lives. This is what led the
county to launch Project Welcome Home and partner with Abode Services, a
national leader in homeless services to provide community-based clinical
services and permanent supportive housing to 150-200 chronically
homeless individuals who are among the most frequent users of the
county’s emergency rooms, acute mental health facilities and jail system.

Identifying those most costly and needy clients might sound simple, but
it required building a complex system and sustainable infrastructure for
data analytics so that county partners can track individuals as they
access multiple separate safety net facilities. So in 2015 the county
partnered with Palantir, a Palo Alto-based company known for world-class
big data analytics software, to build a platform that reveals a holistic
view of the county’s most vulnerable populations.

The platform links key social service data systems, including criminal
justice, Valley Medical Center, outpatient behavioral health services,
homeless services and Abode’s programmatic data. Harnessing the data
helps the county, Abode and UC San Francisco to identify the highest
need clients, locate and connect them to services, track their progress
and monitor the success of the program every day — all while protecting
the privacy and civil liberties of clients.

Stakeholders across government, non-profit, academic and technology
sectors are collaborating in novel ways to generate insights, spot
trends and proactively improve outcomes for clients.

To further ensure both successful results and accountable government
spending, the county is combining this “housing first” strategy with a
new approach to contracting for social services, a performance-based
system known as Pay for Success.

Using Pay for Success, governments, and by extension taxpayers, only pay
for successful outcomes rather than paying for the activities or
services provided. Using the system — the first of its kind in
California and just the eighth nationwide — the county only pays if
Project Welcome Home achieves defined, measurable outcomes of long-term,
stable tenancy verified by UCSF.

One year in, the program is meeting its success metric. The county is
tracking and paying for outcomes that better target taxpayer dollars to
improve lives.

Project Welcome Home is just the start of an ongoing experiment. UCSF
researchers are also evaluating the effectiveness of the county’s
housing services in improving client health, lowering unnecessary use of
services and producing savings. This will be a rigorous, six-year study
that can be the basis for policy decisions here and across the country.

Innovation in the public sector can happen when governments are willing
to take a different approach and leverage the collective expertise of
their community. Santa Clara County is fundamentally reshaping how
homeless services are being delivered in the 21st century, while
embracing the best of Silicon Valley.

With this mind set and data orientation, Project Welcome Home is just
the beginning of how governments engaging in innovative partnerships are
redefining social services.

Gary Graves recently retired as COO of Santa Clara County and has been
deeply involved in supportive housing projects. Alice Yu is a Deployment
Strategist at Palantir and led the design and development of the data
platform for Santa Clara County. They wrote this for the Mercury News.

Review: Samsung Fixes the TV Remote
<http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>

Sponsored Content


        Review: Samsung Fixes the TV Remote
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>


By Samsung
<http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>

Geoffrey A. Fowler tests Samsung’s 2016 TVs, which have one smart
clicker to control all our cable boxes, disc players, video streamers
and apps


      Special to the Mercury News
<http://www.mercurynews.com/author/special-to-the-mercury-news/>

Subscribe Today! All Access Digital offer for just 99 cents!
<https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dsssubscribe.aspx>
 
You Might Also Like

  *
    How I Finally Understood My 401(k)… in 10 minutes How I Finally
    Understood My 401(k)… in 10 minutes Mint.com
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/trackclk/N9515.186294OUTBRAININC0/B8198435.127074735;dc_trk_aid=300209997;dc_trk_cid=58834128;dc_lat=;dc_rdid=;tag_for_child_directed_treatment=>

  *
    Up To 50,000 Bonus Miles: Best Travel Credit Cards Up To 50,000
    Bonus Miles: Best Travel Credit Cards GET.com
    <https://www.get.com/10-best-airline-credit-cards/?ad=outbrain_airline_miles&utm_medium=cpc&utm_source=outbrain_248358&utm_campaign=outbrain_airline_miles_70153484&oclid=32f19b0ce434088439962375575a575b>

  *
    How to Dump Cable and Save Money by Streaming TV How to Dump Cable
    and Save Money by Streaming TV Walmart.com
    <http://www.walmart.com/ideas/choosing-devices/how-to-save-money-by-cutting-cable/48204?adid=1500000000000038257880&veh=cont&wmlspartner=outbrain&utm_campaign=ERC&utm_medium=60936687&utm_term=248358>


  *
    Looking to Fold the Latest Tactics Into Your Sales Strategy? Looking
    to Fold the Latest Tactics Into Your Sales… Salesforce
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/314701008;142500863;o>
  *
    Check out the innovations that are already paving the way for
    better, safer transportation systems Check out the innovations that
    are already paving the… Intel Servers Rock
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/310019248;137045239;x>
  *
    Why Now's The Best Time To Put Money In The Market Why Now's The
    Best Time To Put Money In The Market The Liberty Project
    <http://i.geistm.com/l/57c062c0257bc22d12389e08?utm_source=geist&utm_campaign=584847acdde95b75cf023ad3&bhid=57d01fc93f2a62f226e42f89&bcid=58485094dde95b75cf023b25&utm_content=70797861>


  *
    Florida man who bought a $297,738 Sherman tank sues, says he never
    got it Florida man who bought a $297,738 Sherman tank sues…
    MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2015/11/13/florida-man-who-bought-a-297738-sherman-tank-sues-says-he-never-got-it/>

  *
    DA: Palo Alto woman stabbed sister-in-law 41 times DA: Palo Alto
    woman stabbed sister-in-law 41 times MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/10/11/da-palo-alto-woman-stabbed-sister-in-law-41-times/>

  *
    Is Selena Gomez responsible for Angelina Jolie divorcing Brad Pitt?
    Is Selena Gomez responsible for Angelina Jolie… MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/09/21/is-selena-gomez-responsible-for-angelina-jolie-divorcing-brad-pitt/>


Recommended by<http://www.outbrain.com/what-is/default/en>

Sign up for our newsletters!

Subscribe <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
Follow Us

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>


    Most Popular

 1. Oakland fire aftermath: Evictions as artists’ worst fears come true

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/evictions-in-ghost-ships-wake-artists-worst-fears-coming-true/>

 2. Kim Kardashian is plotting to divorce Kanye West, one report says

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/is-kim-kardashian-plotting-to-divorce-kanye-west/>

 3. San Jose: Firefighters knock down abandoned home fire, suspect squatter

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-jose-firefighters-knock-down-abandoned-home-fire-suspect-squatter/>

 4. Oakland warehouse fire: Officials release names of 9 more victims

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/oakland-warehouse-fire-search-for-victims-85-percent-complete-death-toll-still-36/>

 5. Purdy: It’s now obvious the 49ers should have kept Smith, not
    Kaepernick

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/purdy-the-kap-vs-alex-argument-is-settled-and-its-become-obvious-the-49ers-made-the-wrong-choice/>

 6. Eddy Lepp free after 10-year sentence for growing marijuana

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/cannabis-convict-eddy-lepp-free-after-long-prison-term/>

 7. Sherri Papini ‘consultant’ asked to find another missing California mom

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/sherri-papini-consultant-asked-to-find-another-missing-california-mom/>

 8. Oakland: Artists, restaurant at odds over Salt Lick warehouse
    following deadly Ghost Ship blaze

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-artists-restaurant-at-odds-over-salt-lick-warehouse/>



    More in Opinion

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/cepeda-media-still-talking-down-to-people-of-the-heartland/>

    The media are covering the Trump states more often, but they're
    talking down to the people they say they want to pay attention to.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/cepeda-media-still-talking-down-to-people-of-the-heartland/>



              Cepeda: Media still talking down to people of the
              Heartland
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/cepeda-media-still-talking-down-to-people-of-the-heartland/>


    December 07, 2016, 7:07 pm

    The media are covering the Trump states more often, but they’re
    talking down to the people they say they want to pay attention to.
    3

    <#comments>

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/will-with-carrier-trump-tramples-conservative-values/>

    By paying public money to coerce Carrier to keep some of its jobs in
    Indiana, Donald Trump and Mike Pence trampled free market principles
    and showed themselves to be no more conservative than Barack Obama.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/will-with-carrier-trump-tramples-conservative-values/>



              Will: With Carrier, Trump tramples conservative values
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/will-with-carrier-trump-tramples-conservative-values/>


    December 07, 2016, 5:22 pm

    By paying public money to coerce Carrier to keep some of its jobs in
    Indiana, Donald Trump and Mike Pence trampled free market principles
    and showed themselves to be no more conservative than Barack Obama.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/editorial-contra-costa-district-attorney-should-resign/>

    Contra Costa DA Mark Peterson's illegal use of $66,372 of campaign
    funds for personal expenses was an egregious breach of state rules
    by the county's top law enforcement official.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/editorial-contra-costa-district-attorney-should-resign/>



              Editorial: Contra Costa district attorney should resign
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/editorial-contra-costa-district-attorney-should-resign/>


    December 07, 2016, 11:16 am

    Contra Costa DA Mark Peterson’s illegal use of $66,372 of campaign
    funds for personal expenses was an egregious breach of state rules
    by the county’s top law enforcement official.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/nasol-mann-nguyen-evergreen-college-land-can-provide-education-revenue/>

    Board members say the Evergreen College 27 acres that neighbors want
    to preserve for education can better be used for commercial space
    and can pay rent to support education.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/nasol-mann-nguyen-evergreen-college-land-can-provide-education-revenue/>



              Nasol, Mann, Nguyen: Evergreen College land can provide
              education revenue
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/nasol-mann-nguyen-evergreen-college-land-can-provide-education-revenue/>


    December 07, 2016, 9:29 am

    Board members say the Evergreen College 27 acres that neighbors want
    to preserve for education can better be used for commercial space
    and can pay rent to support education.

  * Member Services <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
  * News Alerts <https://digioh.com/BANG/general?source=TakeAction>

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>

  * Subscribe

    <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx?pid=22>

    <#>
      o Manage Your Subscription <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
      o All Access Subscriptions <http://www.bayareanewsaccess.com/>
      o Today’s e-Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
      o Newsletter Sign-Up <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
      o Mobile Apps <http://www.mercurynews.com/mobile/>
  * Contact Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/contact-us/>

    <#>
      o Corrections <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/corrections/>
      o Reprints <http://www.mercurynews.com/reprints/>
      o Archive Search <http://www.mercurynews.com/archive-search/>
      o Lottery <http://www.mercurynews.com/lottery/>
  * Classifieds

    <http://marketplace.bayareanewsgroup.com/marketplace/>

    <#>
      o Autos <http://www.norcaldrives.com/>
      o Jobs <http://www.mercurynews.com/jobs/>
      o Real Estate <http://realestate.mercurynews.com/>
      o Place an Obituary
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
      o Place a Legal Ad
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/legals/index.html>
  * Advertise With Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/advertise/>

    <#>
      o Today’s Ads <http://ads.mercurynews.com/>
      o Weekly Ads <http://www.mercurynews.com/weekly-ads/>
      o Local Guide <http://mylocal.mercurynews.com/>
      o Fry’s Ad
        <http://newspaperads.mercurynews.com/FSI/tiles.aspx?advid=200177&loc=53824>
      o Public Notices <http://capublicnotice.com/>

  * © 2016 Digital First Media <http://www.digitalfirstmedia.com/>
  * Site Map <http://www.mercurynews.com/sitemap.xml>
  * Copyright <http://www.mercurynews.com/copyright/>
  * Privacy Policy <http://www.mercurynews.com/privacy-policy/>
  * Arbitration
    <http://local.digitalfirstmedia.com/common/dfm/arbitration.pdf>
  * Powered by WordPress.com VIP <https://vip.wordpress.com/>
  * Bay Area News Group

    <http://www.bayareanewsgroup.com/>


      Email This Article

Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel

<#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

Quantcast
:)
