Youth Radio

<https://youthradio.org/> Toggle navigation

  * About

    <#>
      o Classes

        <https://youthradio.org/classes/>
      o Staff

        <https://youthradio.org/staff/>
      o Awards

        <https://youthradio.org/awards/>
      o Press

        <https://youthradio.org/press/>
      o Jobs

        <https://youthradio.org/jobs/>
      o Outlets & Partners

        <https://youthradio.org/outlets-and-partners/>
      o Contact Us

        <https://youthradio.org/contact/>
  * Mission

    <https://youthradio.org/mission/>
  * Youth Storytelling

    <#>
      o Journalism

        <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/>
      o Arts

        <https://youthradio.org/category/arts/>
      o Interactive

        <https://youthradio.org/category/apps/>
      o YR Raw

        <https://youthradio.org/category/yr-raw/>
  * For Educators

    <https://youthradio.org/for-teachers/>
  * Subscribe

    <#>
      o iTunes Link

      o Podcast Link

        <http://feeds.feedburner.com/youthradiopodcast>
      o Site Feed

        <http://feeds.feedburner.com/YouthRadio>
      o Newsletter

        <https://youthradio.org/newsletter/>

*Listen Now* // Podcast // //

Donate

<https://youthradio.org/donate/>


  Growing Up Homeless

June 29, 2016

Share this story:

  *
    /

    /

    <http://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fyouthradio.org%2Fjournalism%2Fhealth%2Fgrowing-up-homeless%2F&t=Growing%20Up%20Homeless>

  *
    /

    /

    <http://twitter.com/share?text=Growing%20Up%20Homeless&url=https%3A%2F%2Fyouthradio.org%2Fjournalism%2Fhealth%2Fgrowing-up-homeless%2F&via=youthradio>


Beginning this week, more than 70 media organizations are working
together to focus attention on the issue of homelessness. Youth Radio is
proud to be a part of this effort, shedding light specifically on the
experience of homeless young people.
According to a 2015 count, unaccompanied youth make up about 20% of San
Francisco’s homeless population. We’ve gathered their stories here, as
reported by our #SFHomelessProject <http://www.sfgate.com/homeless/>
partners, about what it’s like to grow up homeless.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

In San Francisco, one-bedroom apartments rents average $3490 a month.
There are about 1600 homeless young adults in the city on any given
night, and public housing is out of reach for many of them. (Photo
credit: Shawn Wen/Youth Radio)
<https://youthradio.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/IMG_1351_blurred.jpg>

*Young Adults Seeking Public Housing? Good Luck*
<https://youthradio.org/news/article/young-adults-seeking-public-housing-good-luck/>

It’s normal for millennials to still live at home these days. But what
if you’re a millennial who doesn’t have a home to go back to?

[Listen here
<https://youthradio.org/news/article/young-adults-seeking-public-housing-good-luck/>]

 

 

 

 

 

*IMG_0023
<https://s3.amazonaws.com/media.youthradio.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/28112808/IMG_0023.jpg>Healthy
Mind, Healthy Body
<https://youthradio.org/news/article/healthy-mind-healthy-body/> *

When I was 17, I was living out on my own, free from my parents’ rules.
But it was no walk in the park, because I happened to be sleeping in
one. I was homeless.

[Listen here
<https://youthradio.org/news/article/healthy-mind-healthy-body/>]

 

 

 

 

 


  *Youth Homeless Coverage*

 

larkin_street_youth_grads
<https://s3.amazonaws.com/media.youthradio.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/29104805/larkin_street_youth_grads.jpg>

*Your Call: Ending youth homelessness, Live from Larkin Street Youth
Services (KALW) *
<http://kalw.org/post/your-call-ending-youth-homelessness-live-larkin-street-youth-services#stream/0>

On the June 28th edition of Your Call, we continue our week-long series
about the homeless crisis in San Francisco. Today we’re broadcasting
live from Larkin Street Youth Services in the Tenderloin.

Last year’s census counted 1,500 children and youth who live on the
streets or in shelters. From fleeing physical or sexual abuse and
neglect, to sex trafficking and higher rates of death, homeless youth
face substantial risks. What are the solutions to ending youth
homelessness? It’s Your Call with Rose Aguilar and you. [Listen here
<http://kalw.org/post/your-call-ending-youth-homelessness-live-larkin-street-youth-services#stream/0>]

 

 

1-qh5EcXSi9BjZU_OeovyW8w
<https://s3.amazonaws.com/media.youthradio.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/29105620/1-qh5EcXSi9BjZU_OeovyW8w.jpeg>

* **At Larkin Street
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/at-larkin-street-1855dfb807c5#.h2e5vkmpz> (California
Sunday Magazine)*

Forty-eight percent of San Francisco’s homeless youth are LGBTQ. Many
find their way to the city’s largest youth homeless shelter.

[Read their stories here
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/at-larkin-street-1855dfb807c5#.h2e5vkmpz>]

 
1-ffK8Jb3AZ3fakxnF4ZcTHw
<https://s3.amazonaws.com/media.youthradio.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/29110540/1-ffK8Jb3AZ3fakxnF4ZcTHw.jpeg>

*Young and Homeless <http://In the 2015 Homeless Youth Count and Survey,
27 percent reported they had traded drugs and 20 percent had traded sex
for a place to stay. Forty-three percent said they’d been
assaulted.> (California Sunday Magazine)*

California Sunday reporters spent time with four different communities
and asked them about their experiences. Here’s what they learned.

[Read here <http://In the 2015 Homeless Youth Count and Survey, 27
percent reported they had traded drugs and 20 percent had traded sex for
a place to stay. Forty-three percent said they’d been assaulted.>]

 

 

 

 

 

 

*1-osuRVgLuP6NXDXpRh9x_tg
<https://s3.amazonaws.com/media.youthradio.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/29111145/1-osuRVgLuP6NXDXpRh9x_tg.jpeg>**The
Runaways (California Sunday Magazine)*
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/the-runaways-15e292037c08#.lhq85vqar>

“Dirty Kids and Crusty Kids, as they call themselves, sooner or later
end up in the Haight. They are the philosophical descendants of hippies 
— professing love for pot nugs and tattoos and the Grateful Dead and
Rainbow Gatherings out in the wilderness. But they’ve also evolved their
own reject culture with its own genus and species.”

[Read here
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/the-runaways-15e292037c08#.lhq85vqar>]

 

 

 

*1-4NH_eM_JAXBxKwQ2NFIEFw (1)
<https://s3.amazonaws.com/media.youthradio.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/29111737/1-4NH_eM_JAXBxKwQ2NFIEFw-1.jpeg>**Moving
Out (California Sunday Magazine)
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/moving-out-72e8aa7695a3#.gaem503jg>*

One in 23 children in the San Francisco public school district is
homeless. Should the city help families leave?

[Read here
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/moving-out-72e8aa7695a3#.gaem503jg>]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*1-1Z_fsq1jkAPs-EBZ3l-QPQ
<https://s3.amazonaws.com/media.youthradio.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/29112424/1-1Z_fsq1jkAPs-EBZ3l-QPQ.jpeg>*

*Taking Stock
<https://medium.com/@californiasunday/taking-stock-de8832c9caa6#.ca8kfbz18> *(California
Sunday Magazine)**

The city has been sweeping up homeless encampments and confiscating
belongings. We asked youth what they carry with them.

[Read more here
<https://medium.com/@californiasunday/taking-stock-de8832c9caa6#.ca8kfbz18>]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*Main_Image_Downing_CastroYouth
<https://s3.amazonaws.com/media.youthradio.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/29114834/Main_Image_Downing_CastroYouth.jpg>*

*They’re Here, They’re Queer, But Can They Stay?
<http://hoodline.com/2016/06/they-re-here-they-re-queer-but-can-they-stay-the-state-of-youth-lgbtq-housing-in-san-francisco> (Hoodline)*

“The Castro District has long been a destination and refuge for LGBTQ
people around the country regardless of age, color, and origin; however,
with not enough affordable housing units in the neighborhood, it is
challenging for homeless LGBTQ youth to stabilize and become successful
adults in the Castro.”

[Read here
<http://hoodline.com/2016/06/they-re-here-they-re-queer-but-can-they-stay-the-state-of-youth-lgbtq-housing-in-san-francisco>]

Tags: homeless <https://youthradio.org/tag/homeless/>, public housing
<https://youthradio.org/tag/public-housing/>, teen homelessness
<https://youthradio.org/tag/teen-homelessness/>

Produced by chaz hubbard
<https://youthradio.org/producers/chaz-hubbard-3/>, Teresa Chin
<https://youthradio.org/producers/teresa-chin/>

Edited by Teresa Chin <https://youthradio.org/editors/teresa-chin/>

Health

<https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/health/>


        Follow us:

  * //

    <https://www.facebook.com/youthradiopage/>
  * //

    <https://twitter.com/youthradio>
  * //

    <https://www.youtube.com/user/youthradio>
  * //

    <https://www.instagram.com/youthradio/> 


          Health

iPhone
No phone? No way <https://youthradio.org/journalism/tech/no-phone-no-way/>

*October 16, 2016* by Grace Vaughan Brekke
<https://youthradio.org/staff/grace-vaughan-brekke/>

Creative Commons image by Håvard Bjerke,.
I might have Asperger’s Syndrome. But do I really want to know?
<https://youthradio.org/journalism/health/i-might-have-aspergers-syndrome-but-do-i-really-want-to-know/>

*September 04, 2016* by Mighty Writers
<https://youthradio.org/staff/mighty-writers/>

  * Marco Oliveira YR Commentator
    <https://youthradio.org/uncategorized/marco-oliveira-yr-commentator/>
  * Unaccompanied Siblings Trade Home for a New Life
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/unaccompanied-siblings-trade-home-for-a-new-life/>

  * Vibe N’ Thrive: Episode 9
    <https://youthradio.org/yr-raw/raw-show/vibe-n-thrive-episode-9/>
  * Youth Radio Podcast: In The System
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/podcasts/youth-radio-podcast-in-the-system/>

  * How To Use Social Media For Justice IRL
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/tech/how-to-use-social-media-for-justice-irl/>

  * Destiny Of A Dishwasher
    <https://youthradio.org/new-options/destiny-of-a-dishwasher/>
  * Eyeliner for The Revolution: thoughts on living stealth
    post-election
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/outloud/eyeliner-for-the-revolution-thoughts-on-living-stealth-post-election/>

  * Inherent Prejudices and Blatant Racism Hit Close to Home
    <https://youthradio.org/yr-raw/student-content/inherent-prejudices-and-blatant-racism-hit-close-to-home/>

  * Vibe N’ Thrive: Episode 8
    <https://youthradio.org/uncategorized/vibe-n-thrive-episode-8/>
  * Police Turn Water Cannons On Dakota Access Pipeline Protest (PHOTOS)
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/police-turn-water-cannons-on-dakota-access-pipeline-protest-photos/>

  * Marco Oliveira YR Commentator
    <https://youthradio.org/uncategorized/marco-oliveira-yr-commentator/>
  * Unaccompanied Siblings Trade Home for a New Life
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/unaccompanied-siblings-trade-home-for-a-new-life/>

  * Vibe N’ Thrive: Episode 9
    <https://youthradio.org/yr-raw/raw-show/vibe-n-thrive-episode-9/>
  * Youth Radio Podcast: In The System
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/podcasts/youth-radio-podcast-in-the-system/>

  * How To Use Social Media For Justice IRL
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/tech/how-to-use-social-media-for-justice-irl/>

  * Destiny Of A Dishwasher
    <https://youthradio.org/new-options/destiny-of-a-dishwasher/>
  * Eyeliner for The Revolution: thoughts on living stealth
    post-election
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/outloud/eyeliner-for-the-revolution-thoughts-on-living-stealth-post-election/>

  * Inherent Prejudices and Blatant Racism Hit Close to Home
    <https://youthradio.org/yr-raw/student-content/inherent-prejudices-and-blatant-racism-hit-close-to-home/>

  * Vibe N’ Thrive: Episode 8
    <https://youthradio.org/uncategorized/vibe-n-thrive-episode-8/>
  * Police Turn Water Cannons On Dakota Access Pipeline Protest (PHOTOS)
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/police-turn-water-cannons-on-dakota-access-pipeline-protest-photos/>


*Listen Now* //


            Youth Storytelling

  * Journalism <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/>
      o Education <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/education/>
      o Health <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/health/>
      o Juvenile Justice
        <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/juvenile-justice/>
      o outLoud <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/outloud/>
      o Science <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/science/>
  * Interactive <https://youthradio.org/category/apps/>
  * Arts <https://youthradio.org/category/arts/>
      o Remix Your Life
        <https://youthradio.org/category/arts/remix-your-life/>
  * YR Raw <https://youthradio.org/category/yr-raw/>
      o Raw Show <https://youthradio.org/category/yr-raw/raw-show/>
      o Student Content
        <https://youthradio.org/category/yr-raw/student-content/>


            Featured Media Partners


      NPR <http://www.npr.org/>marketplace
      <http://www.marketplace.org/>Stitcher
      <http://www.stitcher.com/>Huffington-Post-Logo
      <http://www.huffingtonpost.com/>


  * About

    <https://youthradio.org/about/>
      o Announcements <https://youthradio.org/category/announcements/>
      o Jobs <https://youthradio.org/jobs/>
      o Outlets & Partners <https://youthradio.org/outlets-and-partners/>
      o Press <https://youthradio.org/press/>
  * Mission

    <https://youthradio.org/mission/>
  * For Educators

    <https://youthradio.org/for-teachers/>

Search for:

  * //

    <https://www.facebook.com/youthradiopage/>
  * //

    <https://twitter.com/youthradio>
  * //

    <https://www.youtube.com/user/youthradio>
  * //

    <https://www.instagram.com/youthradio/> 

1701 Broadway • Oakland, CA 94612 • ph 510.251.1101 • fax 510.899.8789

Read our Privacy Policy

<https://youthradio.org/privacy-policy/> © 2016 Youth Radio

×


        Search Youth Radio

Search for:

×


        Sign Up For Youth Radio's Newsletter

Email Address:

First Name:

Last Name:

:)
