KQED Menu

  *


      KQED Radio

    <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>

  * KQED News Menu

    <#>

  * KQED Radio Home

    <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * Listen Live

    <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Programs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs

        <#>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o The California Report

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report>
      o The Do List

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
      o News Fix

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o Perspectives

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/>

  *


      KQED Radio

    <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>

  * KQED Radio Home

    <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * Listen Live

    <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Programs

    <#>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o The California Report

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report>
      o The Do List

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
      o News Fix

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o Perspectives

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/>
  * Schedules

    <#>
      o Daily Schedule

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily>
      o Weekly Schedule

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/weekly.jsp>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go


  Perspectives Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  * Perspectives Home

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/>

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California

<https://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/>


  Perspectives <https://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/>

Search

<#search-container>
Skip to content

<#content>

  * Perspectives Home

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/>

Search for:

Perspectives <https://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives>


  Growing Up Homeless

Audio Player
http://www.podtrac.com/pts/redirect.mp3/www.kqed.org/.stream/mp3splice/radio/perspectives/2016/06/PerspHomeless.mp3

00:00
00:00
00:00
Use Up/Down Arrow keys to increase or decrease volume.

<javascript:void(0);>
By Vrndavana Hines
<https://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/author/vrndavana-hines/>
June 29, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2016/06/28/teen-homelessness/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2016/06/28/teen-homelessness/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2016/06/28/teen-homelessness/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2016/06/28/teen-homelessness/?share=linkedin&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2016/06/28/teen-homelessness/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2016/06/28/teen-homelessness/?share=email&nb=1>
*

Vrndavana Hines	

I was 13 years old the night I became homeless. I was fighting with
family — that happened a lot — and my mom finally told me to get out. I
could tell it was serious this time. So I did. I just folded my social
security card and my birth certificate into my wallet, and headed to the
railroad tracks

The first night I spent outside, it was raining. I leaned up against a
broken down truck with no doors. It was like a little music video in my
head. I was so depressed. I remember thinking, why is my life this way
when I’m so young?

Later, when I talked to my friends about it, they were like, why didn’t
you hit me up? But I didn’t want to feel like I was in the way. That’s
what my family put on me. I felt like I was in the way all the time.

As a teen, I hid my homelessness from most people. If I was talking to a
school counselor especially, I’d tell them. “You know, everything at
home is going good.” I would just make up stuff because I wasn’t sure
what would happen. Like maybe they’d bring in Child Protective Services
or try to put me on foster care or take me out of this town where all my
friends lived. I was afraid of that. So I didn’t tell anyone.

For a few years, I moved around a lot, staying on couches or shelters or
outside, being nomadic. Eventually, I got old enough to start working to
save up money to get myself off the streets. Now I’m 20 years old. I
have a stable place to live, I recently got my GED.

When I tell my old teachers and coworkers that I was homeless, they’re
always so surprised. “But you were so well kept,” they say. “You
couldn’t tell looking at you.” That was the point, though. Many homeless
teens don’t want anyone to know. Not because we don’t need help, but
because we have too much to lose.

With a Perspective, I’m Vrndavana Hines.

/Vrndavana Hines is 20 years old and lives in San Francisco. His
commentary was produced for the SF Homeless Project by Youth Radio./

Hear more of Vrndavana’s story:

Explore: Perspectives
<https://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/category/perspectives/>, Youth
Issues/Children
<https://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/tag/youth-issueschildren/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2016/06/28/teen-homelessness/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2016/06/28/teen-homelessness/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2016/06/28/teen-homelessness/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2016/06/28/teen-homelessness/?share=linkedin&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2016/06/28/teen-homelessness/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2016/06/28/teen-homelessness/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

2 Comments
<http://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2016/06/28/teen-homelessness/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related Posts from KQED Perspectives

High Rents = Delayed Adulthood

<http://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2016/06/01/high-rents-delayed-adulthood/>

Violence Comes Home

<http://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2010/04/22/violence-comes-home/>

When Home Feels Like Prison

<http://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2016/11/16/when-home-feels-like-prison/>

Parlez-Vous Programming?

<http://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2013/04/25/parlez-vous-programming/>

Young Invincible Needs Obamacare

<http://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2013/12/05/young-invincible-needs-obamacare/>

Having Divorced Parents

<http://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2010/03/02/having-divorced-parents/>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>


  Post navigation

Prev A New Twist on Sex Discrimination

<https://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2016/06/27/a-new-twist-on-sex-discrimination/>
Next Timeless Fixations

<https://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2016/06/29/timeless-fixations/>


  About KQED’s Perspectives

Our series of daily listener commentaries since 1991.
*Airs on KQED Public Radio every weekday morning at 6:43am, 8:43am and
11:29pm and weekends at 7:36am and 8:36am*


  About KQED

  * About <http://www.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://www.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://www.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://www.kqed.org/about/help/index.jsp>

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

[blank image]
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil
:)
