  * San Francisco

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>
      o Radio.com

        <http://radio.com/>
      o CBS Local Sports

        <http://sports.cbslocal.com/>
      o CBS Sports Radio

        <http://radio.cbssports.com/>
      o Tailgate Fan

        <http://tailgatefan.cbslocal.com/>
      o Atlanta

        <http://atlanta.cbslocal.com/>
      o Baltimore

        <http://baltimore.cbslocal.com/>
      o Boston

        <http://boston.cbslocal.com/>
      o Chicago

        <http://chicago.cbslocal.com/>
      o Cleveland

        <http://cleveland.cbslocal.com/>
      o Connecticut

        <http://connecticut.cbslocal.com/>
      o Dallas

        <http://dallas.cbslocal.com/>
      o Denver

        <http://denver.cbslocal.com/>
      o Detroit

        <http://detroit.cbslocal.com/>
      o Houston

        <http://houston.cbslocal.com/>
      o Las Vegas

        <http://lasvegas.cbslocal.com/>
      o Los Angeles

        <http://losangeles.cbslocal.com/>
      o Miami

        <http://miami.cbslocal.com/>
      o Minnesota

        <http://minnesota.cbslocal.com/>
      o New York

        <http://newyork.cbslocal.com/>
      o Philadelphia

        <http://philadelphia.cbslocal.com/>
      o Pittsburgh

        <http://pittsburgh.cbslocal.com/>
      o Sacramento

        <http://sacramento.cbslocal.com/>
      o Seattle

        <http://seattle.cbslocal.com/>
      o St Louis

        <http://stlouis.cbslocal.com/>
      o Tampa

        <http://tampa.cbslocal.com/>
      o Washington

        <http://washington.cbslocal.com/>
  * SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTERS

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/newsletter/signup/>

*CBS Local Rewards

*8

<javascript:sessionm.openPortal();>
Log InRegister

*Sponsored By

*
CBS San Francisco

<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>
*55*°/f/

<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/weather>
5KPIX[1]
*KPIX 5 | CBS San Francisco*/Connect With Us At KPIX 5 PROGRAM GUIDE:
KPIX 5 TV Schedule WATCH: A Glimpse Inside The Working KPIX 5 Newsroom
Breaking News Send news tips, video & photos, and video to the KPIX 5 [...]/

<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/station/cbs-5/>
KCBS[1]
*CONNECT WITH KCBS*/Welcome to KCBS All News 740AM & 106.9FM on
http://www.cbsSF.com!   LISTEN LIVE RIGHT NOW: KCBS Live Audio Stream  
  LIKE KCBS Radio On Facebook: KCBS is the Bay Area’s only all news
station, [...]/

<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/station/kcbs/>
Facebook

<http://www.facebook.com/CBSSanFrancisco>Twitter

<http://twitter.com/#!/cbssf>YouTube

<https://www.youtube.com/user/CBSSanFrancisco>TuneIn

<http://tunein.com/radio/KCBS-All-News-740-AM--1069-FM-s67148/>Instagram

<https://www.instagram.com/kpixtv/>

  * Home

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>	
  * News

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/>	


            All News

    *News

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/>
    *Local

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/local/>
    *Consumer

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/consumer/>
    *Tech

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/tech/>
    *Business

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/business/>
    *LGBT

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/lgbt/>
    *Environment

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/environment/>
    *Politics

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/politics/>
    *Entertainment

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/entertainment/>
    *Education

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/education/>
    *Autos

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/autos>
    *HealthWatch

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/health/>	


            Latest Headlines

    *California Drought Conservation Measures Could Be Permanent

    */California water agencies have drawn up plans to keep drought
    conservation measures in place permanently./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/12/01/california-drought-conservation-measures-could-be-permanent/>
    *Obama Administration Supports Women Registering For Military Draft

    */The Obama administration is announcing its support for requiring
    women to register for the military draft./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/12/01/women-military-draft-selective-service-obama-administration/>



            Photos <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/photo-galleries/>

    *Notable Deaths 2016

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/photo-galleries/2016/11/24/notable-deaths-2016/>



            KPIX5 Live
            <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/show/live-video-kpix-5-cbs-sf-bay-area-san-francisco-watch-news/>

    *Watch KPIX 5 News Live*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/show/live-video-kpix-5-cbs-sf-bay-area-san-francisco-watch-news/>


  * Traffic

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/traffic-map-2/>	
  * Weather

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/weather/>	


            San Francisco, CA

    56 59 45 57% 0% 14 mph
    595957535251
    FULL FORECAST

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/weather/>


            Weather Links

    *Interactive Radar

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/weather/#section-weather-map-3>
    *Weather Maps

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/cbs5-central-bay/>
    *Share Your Photos

    *

    <http://photos.sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/gallery/10274>
    *Weather App

    *

    <http://apps.cbslocal.com/weather/san-francisco/>	


            Weather Videos

    *Weather Videos*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/video/category/news-weather/>	

  * Sports

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/>	


            All Sports

    *Latest

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/>
    *49ers

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/category/49ers/>
    *A's

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/as/>
    *Stanford

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/stanford/>
    *Earthquakes

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/sj-earthquakes/>
    *Giants

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/sf-giants/>
    *Raiders

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/category/raiders/>
    *Sharks

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/sharks/>
    *Warriors

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/warriors/>
    *Scores

    *

    <http://scoresandstats.sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>
    *ODDS

    *

    <http://scoresandstats.sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/news/odds-picks.aspx>	


            Golden State Warriors
            <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/warriors/>

    *Ethics Commission Chastises Politicians Over Free Warriors Tickets

    */Some of the luckiest Golden State Warriors fans in the Bay Area
    are East Bay politicians./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/12/01/ethics-commission-chastises-politicians-over-free-warriors-tickets/>
    *Durant Recalls First Meeting With Steph Curry

    */During this age of elite young sports, it probably shouldn't be
    too much of a surprise that Golden State Warriors superstars Steph
    Curry and Kevin Durant met while still in elementary school./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/30/durant-recalls-first-meeting-with-steph-curry/>



            Oakland Raiders
            <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/raiders/>

    *Raiders Pass Rusher Khalil Mack Steps Up Production

    */With the game on the line, the Carolina Panthers sent three
    blockers in Khalil Mack's direction to no avail./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/12/01/raiders-pass-rusher-khalil-mack-steps-up-production/>
    *Raiders Team Headlines: Can Oakland Win The AFC West?

    */Not only do the Raiders finish with three-of-four games on the
    road, but all three of those contests are against AFC West rivals./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/12/01/raiders-team-headlines-can-oakland-win-the-afc-west/>


  * E.S.P.

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/eat-see-play/>	


            Eat <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/eat-see-play/eat>

    *Win a $75 Gift Certificate From HoneyBaked Hams!

    */Register here for your chance to win a $75 gift certificate from
    HoneyBaked Hams!/

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/kpix-5-contests-3/>
    *Best 24 Hour Diners In San Francisco

    */Hunger pangs hit when you're out at all hours. However, it's not
    as easy as it used to be to find a family-run San Francisco greasy
    spoon that's open all night./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/22/best-24-hour-diners-in-san-francisco/>



            See <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/eat-see-play/see>

    *Victoria's Secret Rocks Paris With $3 Million Bra & Lady Gaga

    */Get a preview of the laciest, if not raciest, catwalk event of the
    year — aka, the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show…/

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/12/01/victorias-secret-rocks-paris-with-3-million-bra-lady-gaga/>
    *Peter Murphy Adds Several Bay Area Tour Dates

    */Murphy will continue his "Stripped" theme, touring as a trio with
    guitarist John Andrews and bassist/electric-violinist Emilio “Zef”
    China./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/29/peter-murphy-adds-several-bay-area-tour-dates/>



            Play
            <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/eat-see-play/play>

    *Remember Pokémon GO? Now There Are 100 New Creatures To Catch

    */Just when Pokémon GO die-hards thought they had caught them all,
    the makers of the app have added 100 new creatures and a bunch of
    new features./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/29/remember-pokemon-go-now-there-are-100-new-creatures-to-catch/>
    *Best Family-Friendly Holiday Events In San Francisco

    */Holiday 2016 is almost here, and San Francisco proves again it is
    the city that does it right with family friendly holiday activities
    and events to fit every budget, from free to splurge./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/29/best-family-family-friendly-holiday-events-in-san-francisco/>


  * Video

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/video/category/spoken-word-kpixtv/>	
    *KPIX 5 Livestream*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/show/live-video-kpix-5-cbs-sf-bay-area-san-francisco-watch-news/>
    *News Videos*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/video/category/spoken-word-kpixtv/>
    *Politics Videos*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/video/category/news-politics/>
    *Sports Videos*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/video/category/sports/>
    *Weather Videos*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/video/category/news-weather/>
    *KCBS-AM*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/video/category/spoken-word-kcbsam/>	

  * Audio

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/audio/>	


            Featured Podcasts

    *Phil Matier*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/audio/phil-matier/>
    *KCBS In Depth*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/audio/kcbs-in-depth/>
    *KCBS Newsroom*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/audio/kcbs-newsroom/>
    *Tech Reports by Larry Magid*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/audio/tech-reports-by-larry-magid/>
    *Narsai David’s Food News*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/audio/narsai-davids-food-news/>	


            More Podcasts

    *Foodie Chap

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/audio/foodie-chap/>
    *KCBS Sports Fans

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/audio/kcbs-sports-fans/>
    *Movie Reviews With Jan Wahl

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/audio/movie-reviews-with-jan-wahl/>	

  * Contests

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/contest-promotions/>	
  * More	


            Travel

    *Tips For Staying Healthy During Your Holidays Travel

    */Five helpful tips on helping you stay healthy during your holiday
    travels.../

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/30/tips-for-staying-healthy-during-your-holidays-travel/>
    *Marin Headlands Tunnel To Close For 4-Month Renovation

    */The tunnel will be closed to all users for 24 hours, seven days a
    week through early May./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/26/baker-barry-tunnel-marin-headlands-close-renovation/>
    *5 Best European Ski Resorts

    */Start planning your next ski vacation to one of the top European
    ski resorts.../

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/23/5-best-european-ski-resorts/>
    *Thanksgiving 2016 Visitor's Guide To Bay Area

    */Four great things to do in San Francisco over the Thanksgiving
    holiday weekend.../

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/top-lists/thanksgiving-visitors-guide-to-bay-area/>



            More

    *Events

    *

    <http://events.sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>	


  Hawaii Homeless Say Honolulu Policy Lacks ‘Aloha Spirit’

/June 29, 2016 6:59 PM/
*Filed Under:* Hawaii <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/tag/hawaii/>,
Homeless <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/tag/homeless/>, San Francisco
Homeless Project
<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/tag/san-francisco-homeless-project/>,
Waikiki Beach <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/tag/waikiki-beach/>

<#>

<#>

<#>
<#comments>

HONOLULU (CBS SF) — Three years ago, the homeless problem at Hawaii’s
famous Waikiki Beach had reached a breaking point. But the city
introduced a strict program that moved transients away from areas
popular with tourists.

Driven out of Waikiki by a wave of new laws, Raenell Preston now calls a
small corner outside of townher home. She’s been living on the streets
for years.

She is just one of thousands forced into a migrant life after Honolulu
officials stopped allowing people to sit or lie on sidewalks or sleep
overnight in the city’s parks.

She said all she wants is a little compassion.

“What I want is for someone to hear us and help us,” said Preston. “Not
judge us because we’re addicts or criminals. But hear us as human beings
with feelings.”

Preston said the worst part is the regular sweeps that break down
homeless camps.

“They cannot replace the things they took from me: my dad’s pendant with
his ashes, my jewelry, my clothes. my bags,” said Preston. “Nothing.”

Honolulu Mayor Kirk Caldwell explained that these extreme measures
needed to be enacted in order to protect the backbone of Hawaii’s
economy: tourism. The tourism industry brings in $15 billion a year to
the Hawaiian economy.

“We are the Aloha State for our residents and for our visitors, but I
don’t want to be the Aloha State for our homeless. I want our homeless
to feel the tough love and to seek shelter,” asserted the mayor.

Caldwell acknowledges that forcing the homeless to move may not be ideal
for them, but he argues that the displacement will force the homeless to
seek both help and shelter.

“We call it ‘Compassionate Disruption.’ And yes, we’re disruptive,”
Caldwell said.

When the initial laws were passed in Waikiki, many of the homeless ended
up in an area called Kakaako about two miles away. The tent city grew so
large, it became a public health concern.

Homeless sweeps have become a regular practice in the area, where city
crews come by and force the homeless to keep moving along. Daniel Gluck,
the legal director of the ACLU Hawaii says the new hard line stance
punishes the poor and is only a cosmetic solution to an ugly problem.

“It’s heartbreaking and it just pushes people further and further into
poverty. It’s a crime to be homeless in Hawaii,” said Gluck.

He filed a lawsuit after the initial sweep, getting a court order
requiring the city to give notice 24 hours before and then storing
whatever they take for 45 days. Gluck is doing all he can to defend
Hawaii’s homeless community, and he wants to put an end to the countless
dollars put towards moving the homeless,

“Our bigger concern is that they keep spending money on a very
ineffective program,” explained Gluck. “The city is spending upwards of
$740,000 a year just to shuffle people from place to place.”

Mayor Caldwell said the regular sweeps have kept the large homeless
camps from re-forming. The once heavily populated homeless camps have
been reduced to a fraction of what they once were.

The homeless are definitely less visible. Now, you can only find them
outside of Waikiki in small pockets, like where Raenell Preston lives.

She only has one question for the mayor: “Where’s the Aloha? There is no
aloha only pass judgement, criticize and get them off the streets that’s
their attitude. It’s not tough love. Love is patience. Love is kind.
Love is genuine. Love is understanding. Love is above all. This isn’t love.”

Comments <#comments>
SPONSORED CONTENT
In The Style Of: Liam Hemsworth
This Australian hunk doesn't need a 'Dressmaker' to create his casual
yet chic look. Never suffering from fashion 'Paranoia', he asserts his
style ...
/Promoted by /*Connatix*


        Leave a Reply Cancel reply
        <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/06/29/hawaii-homeless-say-honolulu-policy-lacks-aloha-spirit/#respond>

Enter your comment here...

Please log in using one of these methods to post your comment:

  *

    <#comment-form-load-service:Twitter>
  *

    <#comment-form-load-service:Facebook>
*

Gravatar <https://gravatar.com/site/signup/>	
Email (required) (Address never made public)

Name (required)

Website

Twitter picture

** You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out
<javascript:HighlanderComments.doExternalLogout(%20'twitter'%20);> / Change
<#> )

Facebook photo

** You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out
<javascript:HighlanderComments.doExternalLogout(%20'facebook'%20);> / Change
<#> )

Google+ photo

** You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out
<javascript:HighlanderComments.doExternalLogout(%20'googleplus'%20);> / Change
<#> )

Cancel <javascript:HighlanderComments.cancelExternalWindow();>

Connecting to %s

Notify me of new comments via email.

Notify me of new posts via email.

<#listen-live>

Listen Live

<#listen-live>
Follow Us On
Facebook <http://www.facebook.com/CBSSanFrancisco>Twitter
<http://twitter.com/#!/cbssf>YouTube
<https://www.youtube.com/user/CBSSanFrancisco>TuneIn
<http://tunein.com/radio/KCBS-All-News-740-AM--1069-FM-s67148/>Instagram
<https://www.instagram.com/kpixtv/>
Sign Up for Newsletters
<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/newsletter/signup/>
MORE NEWS

  *
    image
    Man Shot By Driver In San Francisco After Bay Bridge Collision
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/12/01/man-shot-by-driver-in-san-francisco-after-bay-bridge-collision/?e=rYHemo2RdAHtNw>
  *
    image
    BART Investigated Over Ad Featuring Draymond Green
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/30/bart-investigated-over-ad-featuring-draymond-green/?e=rYHemo2RdAKJRA>
  *
    image
    1.7 Million Pound Bay Bridge Truss Being Removed, Recycled
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/29/1-7-million-pound-bay-bridge-truss-being-removed-recycled/?e=rYHemo2RdACcYw>

Powered by CBS

[http://eventful.com/apps/generic/cbs1x1.gif?rand=721987902295&label=rectest2&disposition=show&testgroup=a&widgettype=more-news]



        More From CBS San Francisco

*Get The New CBS SF Bay Area Local App

*

<http://apps.cbslocal.com/>
*Got Our Weather App?

*

<http://apps.cbslocal.com/weather/san-francisco/>
*Listen to Radio.com Anywhere, Anytime!

*

<http://apps.radio.com/>	

CBS San Francisco

<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>	
Follow Us Facebook

<http://www.facebook.com/CBSSanFrancisco>Twitter

<http://twitter.com/#!/cbssf>YouTube

<https://www.youtube.com/user/CBSSanFrancisco>TuneIn

<http://tunein.com/radio/KCBS-All-News-740-AM--1069-FM-s67148/>Instagram

<https://www.instagram.com/kpixtv/>	

News

  * Business <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/business/>
  * Local <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/local/>
  * Politics <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/politics/>
  * HealthWatch <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/health/>
  * Tech <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/tech/>
  * Entertainment
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/entertainment/>

Watch + Listen

  * Heard On
    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/kcbs-all-news-740-am-1069-fm>
  * Seen On
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/watch-listen/seen-on/>
  * Audio on Demand
    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/kcbs-all-news-740-am-1069-fm>
  * Music <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/watch-listen/music/>
  * Only CBS <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/only-cbs/>

Sports

  * Raiders <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/raiders/>
  * SF Giants <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/sf-giants/>
  * Sharks <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/sharks/>
  * Warriors <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/warriors/>
  * STATS
    <http://scoresandstats.sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/gamematchups.aspx>

Eat.See.Play

  * Eat <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/eat-see-play/eat/>
  * See <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/eat-see-play/see/>
  * Play <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/eat-see-play/play/>

Corporate

  * About Us <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/about-us/>
  * Advertise
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/about-us/advertising-basics/>
  * Business Development
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/about-us/business-development/>
  * Contact <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/about-us/contact-us/>
  * Mobile <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/about-us/mobile/>
  * Connect <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/about-us/connect-with-us/>
  * CBS Television Public File
    <http://policies.cbslocal.com/fcc/sanfrancisco.television.html>
  * CBS Radio Public File
    <http://policies.cbslocal.com/fcc/sanfrancisco.radio.html>

CBS San Francisco

<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>
©2016 CBS Local Media, a division of CBS Radio Inc. All rights reserved.
Powered by WordPress.com VIP
<https://vip.wordpress.com/?utm_source=vip_powered_wpcom&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=VIP%20Footer%20Credit>

By viewing our video content, you are accepting the terms of our Video
Services Policy
<http://policies.cbslocal.com/privacy-june-2015/current.html#video-services>

  * Privacy Policy <http://policies.cbslocal.com/privacy/current.html>
  * Terms of Use <http://policies.cbslocal.com/terms-of-use/>
  * Your California Privacy Rights
    <http://policies.cbslocal.com/privacy/current.html#cali-visitors>
  * Mobile User Agreement
    <http://policies.cbslocal.com/mobile-app-agreement/>
  * Ad Choices <http://policies.cbslocal.com/privacy/current.html#onlinead>
  * EEO Reports <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/eeo-reports/>

  *
      o CBS San Francisco

        <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>
      o Customize

        <https://cbssanfran.wordpress.com/wp-admin/customize.php?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcbssanfran.wordpress.com%2F2016%2F06%2F29%2Fhawaii-homeless-say-honolulu-policy-lacks-aloha-spirit%2F>
      o Follow

      o Sign Up

        <https://wordpress.com/start/>
      o Log In

        <https://cbssanfran.wordpress.com/wp-login.php?redirect_to=http%3A%2F%2Fsanfrancisco.cbslocal.com%2F2016%2F06%2F29%2Fhawaii-homeless-say-honolulu-policy-lacks-aloha-spirit%2F>
      o Copy shortlink

        <http://cbsloc.al/293EvYq>
      o Manage Subscriptions

        <https://subscribe.wordpress.com/>
      o Collapse this bar


      Listen Live


        AM/FM Stations

  *
    KCBS_740
    *KCBS 740 AM*

    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/kcbs-all-news-740-am-1069-fm>
  *
    LIVE_105
    *Live 105*

    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/live-105>
  *
    KFRC
    *106.9 KFRC*

    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/kfrccom-classic-hits>
  *
    997NOW_JAN2016-300x300
    *Now 99.7*

    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/997-now>
  *
    Alice_97-3
    *Alice 97.3*

    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/alice-973>


        Featured Shows & Multimedia

  *
    Play.it Bar
    *Play.It*

    <http://www1.play.it/audio/>
  *
    balt_live_234x132
    *CBS Sports Radio*

    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/cbs-sports-radio>
  *
    always-radioCom
    *Radio.com*

    <http://radio.com/>

Advertise On Our Streams

<https://www.audioadcenter.com/>
<javascript:;><javascript:;>

<javascript:void(0)>
Pause
Unmute
Loaded: 0%
Progress: 0%
Remaining Time -1:00
Fullscreen
Play Video

Unmute
Loaded: 0%
Progress: 0%
Remaining Time -0:00
Fullscreen
Play Video
<https://connatix.com/>
:)
tourists
town
