Youth Radio

<https://youthradio.org/> Toggle navigation

  * About

    <#>
      o Classes

        <https://youthradio.org/classes/>
      o Staff

        <https://youthradio.org/staff/>
      o Awards

        <https://youthradio.org/awards/>
      o Press

        <https://youthradio.org/press/>
      o Jobs

        <https://youthradio.org/jobs/>
      o Outlets & Partners

        <https://youthradio.org/outlets-and-partners/>
      o Contact Us

        <https://youthradio.org/contact/>
  * Mission

    <https://youthradio.org/mission/>
  * Youth Storytelling

    <#>
      o Journalism

        <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/>
      o Arts

        <https://youthradio.org/category/arts/>
      o Interactive

        <https://youthradio.org/category/apps/>
      o YR Raw

        <https://youthradio.org/category/yr-raw/>
  * For Educators

    <https://youthradio.org/for-teachers/>
  * Subscribe

    <#>
      o iTunes Link

      o Podcast Link

        <http://feeds.feedburner.com/youthradiopodcast>
      o Site Feed

        <http://feeds.feedburner.com/YouthRadio>
      o Newsletter

        <https://youthradio.org/newsletter/>

*Listen Now* // Podcast // //

Donate

<https://youthradio.org/donate/>


  Healthy Mind, Healthy Body

August 28, 2012 by Venus Morris
<https://youthradio.org/staff/venus-morris/>

Featured on KQED <https://youthradio.org/outlets/kqed/>

Listen Now //
/

/

Download

<https://s3.amazonaws.com/media.youthradio.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/28111911/YR_VenusMorris_Nutrition_KQED.mp3>


Share this story:

  *
    /

    /

    <http://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fyouthradio.org%2Fjournalism%2Fhealth%2Fhealthy-mind-healthy-body%2F&t=Healthy%20Mind%2C%20Healthy%20Body>

  *
    /

    /

    <http://twitter.com/share?text=Healthy%20Mind%2C%20Healthy%20Body&url=https%3A%2F%2Fyouthradio.org%2Fjournalism%2Fhealth%2Fhealthy-mind-healthy-body%2F&via=youthradio>


IMG_0023
<https://s3.amazonaws.com/media.youthradio.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/28112808/IMG_0023.jpg>

When I was 17, I was living out on my own, free from my parents’ rules.
But it was no walk in the park, because I happened to be sleeping in
one. I was homeless.

During that time, I ate at fast food restaurants like Taco Bell and Jack
in the Box. The food wasn’t great for me, but if it was convenient for
my pocket, then it was convenient for my stomach. In any case, it was
better than eating nothing at all.

I had so much going on in my life back then. It took me a couple weeks
to notice that my jeans were getting tight. I was gaining weight even
though I was only eating once or twice a day. People told me I needed to
eat organic and shop at places like Whole Foods and Trader Joe’s. But
that was the last thing on my mind. I wanted to cook my own food or go
buy a salad, but how was I supposed to prioritize what I ate when I was
sleeping at a bus stop?

After six weeks on the street, I went back to my parents’ house. But by
then, I had gotten used to my bad eating habits. Rather than have my
parents tell me what and when to eat, I just didn’t. It got to the point
where I passed out on my way to Spanish class from dehydration. I was in
a health crisis. And I knew I needed help. So I went to a counselor to
finally work out my issues.

Now I’m 21, and I work at a youth center where I cook for at-risk teens.
A lot of them don’t have support in their lives, let alone a home. I see
so much of who I used to be in them. They have low self-esteem, and eat
too much or too little. And they constantly hear they aren’t good
enough. But instead of me telling them they can’t have chips, and they
need to eat a salad, I ask them, “How’s your day going?”

I’ve learned that you have to ask kids what’s on the inside before you
tell them how to fix the outside.

Featured on KQED <https://youthradio.org/outlets/kqed/>

Tags: homeless <https://youthradio.org/tag/homeless/>, homeless youth
<https://youthradio.org/tag/homeless-youth/>, homelessness
<https://youthradio.org/tag/homelessness/>

Health

<https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/health/>


        Follow us:

  * //

    <https://www.facebook.com/youthradiopage/>
  * //

    <https://twitter.com/youthradio>
  * //

    <https://www.youtube.com/user/youthradio>
  * //

    <https://www.instagram.com/youthradio/> 


          Health

iPhone
No phone? No way <https://youthradio.org/journalism/tech/no-phone-no-way/>

*October 16, 2016* by Grace Vaughan Brekke
<https://youthradio.org/staff/grace-vaughan-brekke/>

Creative Commons image by Håvard Bjerke,.
I might have Asperger’s Syndrome. But do I really want to know?
<https://youthradio.org/journalism/health/i-might-have-aspergers-syndrome-but-do-i-really-want-to-know/>

*September 04, 2016* by Mighty Writers
<https://youthradio.org/staff/mighty-writers/>

  * Marco Oliveira YR Commentator
    <https://youthradio.org/uncategorized/marco-oliveira-yr-commentator/>
  * Unaccompanied Siblings Trade Home for a New Life
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/unaccompanied-siblings-trade-home-for-a-new-life/>

  * Vibe N’ Thrive: Episode 9
    <https://youthradio.org/yr-raw/raw-show/vibe-n-thrive-episode-9/>
  * Youth Radio Podcast: In The System
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/podcasts/youth-radio-podcast-in-the-system/>

  * How To Use Social Media For Justice IRL
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/tech/how-to-use-social-media-for-justice-irl/>

  * Destiny Of A Dishwasher
    <https://youthradio.org/new-options/destiny-of-a-dishwasher/>
  * Eyeliner for The Revolution: thoughts on living stealth
    post-election
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/outloud/eyeliner-for-the-revolution-thoughts-on-living-stealth-post-election/>

  * Inherent Prejudices and Blatant Racism Hit Close to Home
    <https://youthradio.org/yr-raw/student-content/inherent-prejudices-and-blatant-racism-hit-close-to-home/>

  * Vibe N’ Thrive: Episode 8
    <https://youthradio.org/uncategorized/vibe-n-thrive-episode-8/>
  * Police Turn Water Cannons On Dakota Access Pipeline Protest (PHOTOS)
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/police-turn-water-cannons-on-dakota-access-pipeline-protest-photos/>

  * Marco Oliveira YR Commentator
    <https://youthradio.org/uncategorized/marco-oliveira-yr-commentator/>
  * Unaccompanied Siblings Trade Home for a New Life
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/unaccompanied-siblings-trade-home-for-a-new-life/>

  * Vibe N’ Thrive: Episode 9
    <https://youthradio.org/yr-raw/raw-show/vibe-n-thrive-episode-9/>
  * Youth Radio Podcast: In The System
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/podcasts/youth-radio-podcast-in-the-system/>

  * How To Use Social Media For Justice IRL
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/tech/how-to-use-social-media-for-justice-irl/>

  * Destiny Of A Dishwasher
    <https://youthradio.org/new-options/destiny-of-a-dishwasher/>
  * Eyeliner for The Revolution: thoughts on living stealth
    post-election
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/outloud/eyeliner-for-the-revolution-thoughts-on-living-stealth-post-election/>

  * Inherent Prejudices and Blatant Racism Hit Close to Home
    <https://youthradio.org/yr-raw/student-content/inherent-prejudices-and-blatant-racism-hit-close-to-home/>

  * Vibe N’ Thrive: Episode 8
    <https://youthradio.org/uncategorized/vibe-n-thrive-episode-8/>
  * Police Turn Water Cannons On Dakota Access Pipeline Protest (PHOTOS)
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/police-turn-water-cannons-on-dakota-access-pipeline-protest-photos/>


*Listen Now* //


            Youth Storytelling

  * Journalism <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/>
      o Education <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/education/>
      o Health <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/health/>
      o Juvenile Justice
        <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/juvenile-justice/>
      o outLoud <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/outloud/>
      o Science <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/science/>
  * Interactive <https://youthradio.org/category/apps/>
  * Arts <https://youthradio.org/category/arts/>
      o Remix Your Life
        <https://youthradio.org/category/arts/remix-your-life/>
  * YR Raw <https://youthradio.org/category/yr-raw/>
      o Raw Show <https://youthradio.org/category/yr-raw/raw-show/>
      o Student Content
        <https://youthradio.org/category/yr-raw/student-content/>


            Featured Media Partners


      NPR <http://www.npr.org/>marketplace
      <http://www.marketplace.org/>Stitcher
      <http://www.stitcher.com/>Huffington-Post-Logo
      <http://www.huffingtonpost.com/>


  * About

    <https://youthradio.org/about/>
      o Announcements <https://youthradio.org/category/announcements/>
      o Jobs <https://youthradio.org/jobs/>
      o Outlets & Partners <https://youthradio.org/outlets-and-partners/>
      o Press <https://youthradio.org/press/>
  * Mission

    <https://youthradio.org/mission/>
  * For Educators

    <https://youthradio.org/for-teachers/>

Search for:

  * //

    <https://www.facebook.com/youthradiopage/>
  * //

    <https://twitter.com/youthradio>
  * //

    <https://www.youtube.com/user/youthradio>
  * //

    <https://www.instagram.com/youthradio/> 

1701 Broadway • Oakland, CA 94612 • ph 510.251.1101 • fax 510.899.8789

Read our Privacy Policy

<https://youthradio.org/privacy-policy/> © 2016 Youth Radio

×


        Search Youth Radio

Search for:

×


        Sign Up For Youth Radio's Newsletter

Email Address:

First Name:

Last Name:

:)
