Urban Putt Banner <javascript:void(0)>
MissionLocal <http://missionlocal.org/>


MissionLocal

Sections

  * Español <http://missionlocal.org/category/en-espanol/>
  * News <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/>
      o Mission Fire <http://missionlocal.org/mission-fire-r/>
      o Technology
        <http://missionlocal.org/category/money/technology-money/>
      o Business <http://missionlocal.org/category/money/>
      o Culture <http://missionlocal.org/category/the-arts/>
          + Food <http://missionlocal.org/category/food-topics/>
          + SROs: Rooms out of View
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/sro-topics/>
          + Dolores Park
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/dolores-park-topics/>
      o Transit <https://missionlocal.org/category/topics/transportation/>
          + BART <http://missionlocal.org/category/bart/>
          + Bikes <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/bikes-topics/>
      o Education <http://missionlocal.org/category/hall-pass/>
          + Elementary Schools
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/hall-pass/elementary-schools-2/>
          + Middle Schools
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/hall-pass/middle-schools/>
          + High School
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/hall-pass/high-school-hall-pass/>
      o Stop! Ask. <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/stop-ask/>
      o Street Science
        <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/street-science/>
      o Housing <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/housing-topics/>
          + 24th Street <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/24th/>
          + Mission Street
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/mission-street-topics/>
          + Valencia Street
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/valencia-street-topics/>
  * Trouble <http://missionlocal.org/category/trouble/>
  * Restaurant Reviews <http://missionlocal.org/restaurant-reviews/>
  * Housing <http://missionlocal.org/housingwatch/>
  * Guide <http://missionlocal.org/newcomers/>
      o The Essential Guide <http://missionlocal.org/newcomers/>
      o Stories on Local History
        <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/mission-history-topics/>
  * Events <https://missionlocal.org/mission-events/>
  * About <http://missionlocal.org/about/>
      o Shop <http://missionlocal.org/shop/>
  * Memberships <https://missionlocal.org/ml-membership/>
      o For Readers <http://missionlocal.org/ml-membership/>
      o For Business <http://missionlocal.org/ml-business-membership/>
      o We’ve Joined! Residents
        <http://missionlocal.org/contributing-members-page/>
      o We’ve Joined! Businesses <http://missionlocal.org/businessmembers/>
      o FAQs
        <https://missionlocal.org/2014/10/faqs-mission-locals-membership-drive/>
  * Advertise <http://missionlocal.org/advertise/>


  High Rents Keep SF Homeless on the Street, Various Ties Keep Them Here

Photo by Lola M. Chavez

Photo by Lola M. Chavez

By Laura Wenus <http://missionlocal.org/author/lauraw/>
<http://twitter.com/laurawenus> Posted June 29, 2016 7:00 am
Facebook <http://missionlocal.org/#facebook>Twitter
<http://missionlocal.org/#twitter>Share
<https://www.addtoany.com/share#url=http%3A%2F%2Fmissionlocal.org%2F2016%2F06%2Fhigh-rents-keep-sf-homeless-on-the-street-various-ties-keep-them-here%2F&title=High%20Rents%20Keep%20SF%20Homeless%20on%20the%20Street%2C%20Various%20Ties%20Keep%20Them%20Here>

Many people living on the streets know that the only exit from
homelessness is finding a home. But in a city with exorbitant rents,
that becomes trickier than simply getting a job and submitting an
application. Some already work, and others are on a fixed income. And
leaving altogether often isn’t a viable alternative.

Catherine Mary Kelliher is living under the overpass in an area known as
“the Hairball” with some 10 other of the city’s estimated 6,500 to
10,000 homeless. Kelliher was evicted from her apartment near St. Luke’s
hospital, where she had lived since 2009, in late 2015. At the time, she
had been paying around $1,000 a month to rent a small one-bedroom.

“I thought the rent was expensive…but hindsight’s 20/20,” she said. “I
would like affordable housing.”

The eviction came on the heels of a manic episode Kelliher suffered that
she attributed to having been misdiagnosed and prescribed the wrong
medication. Now diagnosed as bipolar and medicated appropriately,
Kelliher still cannot work, as she is disabled three ways: She has three
herniated discs in her neck, bipolar disorder, and Multiple Sclerosis.
She is in treatment for all three, but finding a job that pays enough to
rent an apartment is laughable.

Mission Pie In Story <javascript:void(0)>

“It wouldn’t surprise me if [that apartment] started at four grand,” she
said. “Which is out of control. It’s out of control.”

For Kelliher and others, it isn’t as simple as just finding a cheap
apartment elsewhere. Many of those on San Francisco’s streets suffer
from chronic illnesses, Kelliher said.

“The reason why a lot of folks like it in San Francisco, people with
chronic illnesses like MS, is that the weather is accommodating to us,”
she explained. “When you have a chronic illness you feel the cold, more
you feel the heat more.”

Others are not leaving because they are partway through the process of
getting housing, even if their experience to outsiders might seem
fruitless. Tita Malcolm, for example, said she has been on the waiting
list for affordable housing through the Department of Housing and Urban
Development for ten years. A few times she was ready to pick up her key,
but was delayed. Most recently, a department worker told her Malcolm
would need to keep waiting as a family displaced by a fire had been
placed in the unit she was slated to receive.

“She goes, well, our obligation goes first to our residents. And I said
well, aren’t I a resident, a part of you guys now? Add she said no, our
/actual /residents,” Malcolm recalled.

Heroin addiction, evictions from shared apartments, and disagreements
with her partner have also hampered Malcolm’s path to permanent
residency. But she is determined to get placed. The thought of her son,
from whose life she was largely absent but who is now poised to attend
the University of California at San Diego on a full scholarship, also
keeps her motivated to move forward.

“I believe in the power of the mind, and I am a trooper,” she said. “I’m
tired of existing. I want to live.”

Corinthians Redmon’s life started in the Mission, at San Francisco
General Hospital, and it feels like home to him. But forget renting an
apartment here.

“2,000 bucks a month? I can’t do that,” he said. He, too, camps out
under the Hairball. His grandmother owned a house directly across from
General Hospital, and he spent the first years of his life in the
Mission. Eventually, he bought a house with his wife. But the pair
split, Redmon lost the house, and his attempts to stay with roommates
around the city faltered when his income was insufficient to pay rent.

From there he tried hotels, and when those proved untenable also, he
reconnected with an uncle who had already been staying under the
Hairball for some time, eventually joining him. With no actual evictions
under his belt and a bit of money saved, he’s hopeful it wouldn’t be too
difficult to sign a lease somewhere, but he’s not sure what would help
him get there.

“Not a shelter, I know,” Redmon said. “Just lower rent.”

When his flower shop on 16th and Geary failed, James Colangelo sold
everything he had and bought a tent to stave off going into crippling
debt and ruining his credit. Now he lives on the street and does odd
jobs where he can get them. He also works for an entertainment company
that builds and runs ice rinks in the winter. He helps with setup and
works as an EMT. At night he goes home to an encampment.

“It’s hard to get a place when you haven’t had a job or pay stubs for
six months straight,” he said. “And I don’t have my dog now because he
got stolen… but when I had my dog it’s hard to find a place that takes
dogs.”

But what’s even harder to find is an affordable place to stay. He’s
saving up to rent a place but knows it will take time. What would help
him off the street?

“Cheaper rent,” he said. “It’s expensive to live here, very expensive.”

Those who are tasked with helping the homeless get off the street are
familiar with the refrain and know that housing is not easy to come by.

Sam Dodge, the Mayor’s current point person on homelessness, agreed that
the famous Navigation Center, designed to help transition people from
the streets to some kind of place to stay, hinges on the availability of
housing.

“To be able to navigate you need to have somewhere to navigate to,” he
said. “There’s far more diversity and need than just purely the
permanent supportive housing.”

Kelley Cutler, who works with the Coalition on Homelessness, said she
knows of nurses, teachers, and other professionals living in the shelter
system because rent is unaffordable.

“It wasn’t always like this,” she said, citing federal cuts in spending
on housing programs.

But part of it is also city infrastructure, which Cutler said used to
support poor people. With a new influx of younger, wealthier residents,
cities as a whole have become more unaffordable, but the infrastructure
to support the destitute has not migrated out.

“[For the] middle class, it really sucks when you get pushed out, but
they have the means to relocate. Folks that are poor don’t have any,”
she said. “People say, oh, if you can’t afford San Francisco you just
have to go somewhere else. There’s no infrastructure outside of cities,
and so that’s why we’re seeing this, not just in San Francisco, but
across the nation, because people are being pushed out of housing
there’s nowhere to go.”

/This story is published as part of a collaborative project among some
70 Bay Area news organizations to highlight homelessness this week. You
can see the full range of coverage here <http://www.sfgate.com/homeless/>./


Share this:

  * Print
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/06/high-rents-keep-sf-homeless-on-the-street-various-ties-keep-them-here/#print>
  * Email
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/06/high-rents-keep-sf-homeless-on-the-street-various-ties-keep-them-here/?share=email&nb=1>
  * More <#>
*

  *
  *
  *
  * Share on Tumblr
    <https://www.tumblr.com/share/link/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fmissionlocal.org%2F2016%2F06%2Fhigh-rents-keep-sf-homeless-on-the-street-various-ties-keep-them-here%2F&name=High%20Rents%20Keep%20SF%20Homeless%20on%20the%20Street%2C%20Various%20Ties%20Keep%20Them%20Here>
*


      /Related/

Hiring Hall Raises Funds for Homeless Job-Seekers
<http://missionlocal.org/2015/09/hiring-hall-raises-funds-for-homeless-job-seekers/>September
2, 2015In "Front Page"

Two Fire Victims End Months of Homelessness, But a Third Remains
Unhoused
<http://missionlocal.org/2016/10/two-fire-victims-end-months-of-homelessness-but-a-third-remains-unhoused/>October
27, 2016In "Featured"

Singing the Blues about SF Homelessness
<http://missionlocal.org/2015/03/singing-the-blues-about-homelessness-in-san-francisco/>March
26, 2015In "Featured"

Facebook <http://missionlocal.org/#facebook>Twitter
<http://missionlocal.org/#twitter>Share
<https://www.addtoany.com/share#url=http%3A%2F%2Fmissionlocal.org%2F2016%2F06%2Fhigh-rents-keep-sf-homeless-on-the-street-various-ties-keep-them-here%2F&title=High%20Rents%20Keep%20SF%20Homeless%20on%20the%20Street%2C%20Various%20Ties%20Keep%20Them%20Here>

Filed under: Featured <http://missionlocal.org/category/featured/>,
Front Page <http://missionlocal.org/category/front-page/>, Housing
<http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/housing-topics/>, Mobile
<http://missionlocal.org/category/mobile/>, Multimedia
<http://missionlocal.org/category/multimedia/>, Newsletter
<http://missionlocal.org/category/newsletter/>, SF Homeless Project
<http://missionlocal.org/category/sf-homeless-project/>, Today's Mission
<http://missionlocal.org/category/todays-mission/>

Tagged: Cesar Chavez Street
<http://missionlocal.org/tag/cesar-chavez-street/>, homelessness
<http://missionlocal.org/tag/homelessness/>, housing
<http://missionlocal.org/tag/housing/>


    You may also like:

#

  * File photo: Students participate in a workshop at Mission High
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/classroom-volunteers-sought-for-mission-schools/>Classroom
    Volunteers Sought for Mission Schools
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/classroom-volunteers-sought-for-mission-schools/>
  * Mi Pueblita near 24th. Photo by Lydia Chávez
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-margarita-party/>SNAP:
    Margarita Party? <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-margarita-party/>
  * Multikulti at 539 Valencia St. Photo by Joe Rivano Barros.
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/multikulti-on-valencia-street-to-close-after-16-years/>Multikulti
    on Valencia Street to Close After 16 Years
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/multikulti-on-valencia-street-to-close-after-16-years/>

Comments are closed.

Full name required to post. For full details, read our Policy
<http://missionlocal.org/terms#comments>	
Get Mission Local's Weekly Newsletter

Search for:

<http://www.facebook.com/missionlocalsf/> <http://twitter.com/mlnow/>
<http://www.vimeo.com/missionlocal/>
<http://instagram.com/missionlocal/> <http://missionlocal.org/feed/>
Snaps from the Community <https://missionlocal.org/missionlocalsnaps/>


    Today's Mission

  *


            Classroom Volunteers Sought for Mission Schools
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/classroom-volunteers-sought-for-mission-schools/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 5:25 pm

  *


            SNAP: Margarita Party?
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-margarita-party/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 2:58 pm

  *


            Multikulti on Valencia Street to Close After 16 Years
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/multikulti-on-valencia-street-to-close-after-16-years/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 2:53 pm

  *


            Schools Respond to Post-Election Fears With March in SF
            Mission
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/schools-respond-to-post-election-fears-with-march-in-sf-mission/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 2:13 pm

  *


            ML News Wire: Off to Salvador with a Bag of Books,...
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/ml-news-wire-off-to-salvador-with-a-bag-of-books-la-victorias-planned-bar-and-more/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 1:13 pm

  *


            Man Injured in Shooting Near Dolores Park
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/man-injured-in-shooting-near-dolores-park/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 10:56 am

  *


            3-Car Crash in SF’s Mission Sends Man to Hospital
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/3-car-crash-in-mission-district-this-morning/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 9:59 am

  *


            Facing Ageism with Dance, Photography, Fashion at ODC
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/facing-ageism-with-dance-photography-fashion-at-odc/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 9:00 am

  *


            In Stunner, City Strikes Down Major Mission Project
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/in-stunner-city-strikes-down-major-mission-project/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 6:00 am

  *


            Standing Rock Fund Raiser Tonight at the Make Out Room
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/standing-rock-fund-raiser-tonight-at-the-make-out-room/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 5:20 pm

  *


            Dolores Park “Eco Pop-Up” Deemed Successful
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/dolores-park-eco-pop-up-deemed-successful/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 4:40 pm

  *


            Two Men Injured, One Arrested in SF Mission Shootout
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/two-men-injured-one-arrested-in-sf-mission-shootout/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 11:17 am

  *


            SNAP: Banking is so Boring
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-banking-is-so-boring/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 10:56 am

  *


            News from Around the Bay: Wrongful Evictions and More
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/news-from-around-the-bay-wrongful-evictions-and-more/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 9:13 am

  *


            A Week After Trump, Leftist San Francisco Bookstore Modern
            Times Closes...
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/a-week-after-trump-modern-times-closes-doors/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 6:00 am

  *


            Two Injured in SF’s Mission After Shots Fired on Harrison
            Street
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/two-injured-in-sfs-mission-after-shots-fired-on-harrison-street/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 5:35 pm

  *


            Five Violent Robberies, Two Arrests in SF Mission Over
            Veteran’s Day...
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/five-violent-robberies-two-arrests-in-sf-mission-over-veterans-day-weekend/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 2:25 pm

  *


            SF’s Urban Film Festival
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/sfs-urban-film-festival/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 12:01 pm

  *


            Notes of Post-Election Empathy Adorn BART Station Walls
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/notes-of-post-election-empathy-adorn-bart-station-walls/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 11:40 am

  *


            SNAP: Breakfast on the Go
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-breakfast-on-the-go/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 10:56 am

••••
Mission Pie ORDER <javascript:void(0)>
Image
{{ title }}
{{ description }}

  * {{ comment.text }} - @{{ comment.from.username }}

{{ comment_count }} {{ comment_term }}{{ comment_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }} {{ like_count }} {{ like_term }}{{ like_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }}
ODC
A sneak peek of our children's chorus rehearsing for "The Velveteen
Rabbit"! See these talented kids onstage at the YBCA, Nov 25-Dec 11. Tix
at www.odc.dance/vr

  * Maya is in this! - @Berni Hui
  * - awesome - " "love . . . " - t-h-i-s - & Thanks So Much - ODC/Dance
    / ODC ! - @Catherine Kirsch

2 comments 4 likes
<https://ad.broadstreetads.com/click/81403>
Image
{{ title }}
{{ description }}

  * {{ comment.text }} - @{{ comment.from.username }}

{{ comment_count }} {{ comment_term }}{{ comment_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }} {{ like_count }} {{ like_term }}{{ like_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }}
Image
Dance Brigade's Dance Mission
Tonight! Don't sleep.
<https://ad.broadstreetads.com/click/85306>
CASASF SR <javascript:void(0)>
Image
{{ title }}
{{ description }}

  * {{ comment.text }} - @{{ comment.from.username }}

{{ comment_count }} {{ comment_term }}{{ comment_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }} {{ like_count }} {{ like_term }}{{ like_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }}
Image
Mission Comics and Art
Artist Brian Stelfreeze show his amazing skills with this cover to Black
Panther #8
<https://ad.broadstreetads.com/click/80991>
Brava SR Standing Rock <javascript:void(0)>Body Manipulations SR
<javascript:void(0)>

Copyright 2016, MissionLocal | Powered by WordPress and the CalPress
theme | Privacy Policy <http://missionlocal.org/terms#privacy> |
Register <http://missionlocal.org/wp-login.php?action=register> | Log in
<http://missionlocal.org/wp-login.php>

Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

Copied!
Facebook <http://missionlocal.org/#facebook>Twitter
<http://missionlocal.org/#twitter>Google+
<http://missionlocal.org/#google_plus>Pinterest
<http://missionlocal.org/#pinterest>Email
<http://missionlocal.org/#email>LinkedIn
<http://missionlocal.org/#linkedin>Reddit
<http://missionlocal.org/#reddit>Tumblr
<http://missionlocal.org/#tumblr>WordPress
<http://missionlocal.org/#wordpress>Google Gmail
<http://missionlocal.org/#google_gmail>WhatsApp
<http://missionlocal.org/#whatsapp>StumbleUpon
<http://missionlocal.org/#stumbleupon>AIM
<http://missionlocal.org/#aim>Amazon Wish List
<http://missionlocal.org/#amazon_wish_list>AOL Mail
<http://missionlocal.org/#aol_mail>App.net
<http://missionlocal.org/#app_net>Baidu
<http://missionlocal.org/#baidu>Balatarin
<http://missionlocal.org/#balatarin>BibSonomy
<http://missionlocal.org/#bibsonomy>Bitty Browser
<http://missionlocal.org/#bitty_browser>Blinklist
<http://missionlocal.org/#blinklist>Blogger Post
<http://missionlocal.org/#blogger_post>BlogMarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#blogmarks>Bookmarks.fr
<http://missionlocal.org/#bookmarks_fr>Box.net
<http://missionlocal.org/#box_net>BuddyMarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#buddymarks>Buffer
<http://missionlocal.org/#buffer>Care2 News
<http://missionlocal.org/#care2_news>CiteULike
<http://missionlocal.org/#citeulike>Copy Link
<http://missionlocal.org/#copy_link>Delicious
<http://missionlocal.org/#delicious>Design Float
<http://missionlocal.org/#design_float>Diary.Ru
<http://missionlocal.org/#diary_ru>Diaspora
<http://missionlocal.org/#diaspora>Digg
<http://missionlocal.org/#digg>diHITT
<http://missionlocal.org/#dihitt>Diigo
<http://missionlocal.org/#diigo>Douban
<http://missionlocal.org/#douban>Draugiem
<http://missionlocal.org/#draugiem>DZone
<http://missionlocal.org/#dzone>Evernote
<http://missionlocal.org/#evernote>Facebook Messenger
<http://missionlocal.org/#facebook_messenger>Fark
<http://missionlocal.org/#fark>Flipboard
<http://missionlocal.org/#flipboard>Folkd
<http://missionlocal.org/#folkd>Google Bookmarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#google_bookmarks>Google Classroom
<http://missionlocal.org/#google_classroom>Hacker News
<http://missionlocal.org/#hacker_news>Hatena
<http://missionlocal.org/#hatena>Instapaper
<http://missionlocal.org/#instapaper>Jamespot
<http://missionlocal.org/#jamespot>Kakao
<http://missionlocal.org/#kakao>Kik <http://missionlocal.org/#kik>Kindle
It <http://missionlocal.org/#kindle_it>Known
<http://missionlocal.org/#known>Line
<http://missionlocal.org/#line>LiveJournal
<http://missionlocal.org/#livejournal>Mail.Ru
<http://missionlocal.org/#mail_ru>Mendeley
<http://missionlocal.org/#mendeley>Meneame
<http://missionlocal.org/#meneame>Mixi
<http://missionlocal.org/#mixi>MySpace
<http://missionlocal.org/#myspace>Netlog
<http://missionlocal.org/#netlog>Netvouz
<http://missionlocal.org/#netvouz>NewsVine
<http://missionlocal.org/#newsvine>NUjij
<http://missionlocal.org/#nujij>Odnoklassniki
<http://missionlocal.org/#odnoklassniki>Oknotizie
<http://missionlocal.org/#oknotizie>Outlook.com
<http://missionlocal.org/#outlook_com>Pinboard
<http://missionlocal.org/#pinboard>Plurk
<http://missionlocal.org/#plurk>Pocket
<http://missionlocal.org/#pocket>Print
<http://missionlocal.org/#print>PrintFriendly
<http://missionlocal.org/#printfriendly>Protopage Bookmarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#protopage_bookmarks>Pusha
<http://missionlocal.org/#pusha>Qzone
<http://missionlocal.org/#qzone>Rediff MyPage
<http://missionlocal.org/#rediff>Renren
<http://missionlocal.org/#renren>Segnalo
<http://missionlocal.org/#segnalo>Sina Weibo
<http://missionlocal.org/#sina_weibo>SiteJot
<http://missionlocal.org/#sitejot>Skype
<http://missionlocal.org/#skype>Slashdot
<http://missionlocal.org/#slashdot>SMS
<http://missionlocal.org/#sms>Stumpedia
<http://missionlocal.org/#stumpedia>Svejo
<http://missionlocal.org/#svejo>Symbaloo Feeds
<http://missionlocal.org/#symbaloo_feeds>Telegram
<http://missionlocal.org/#telegram>Trello
<http://missionlocal.org/#trello>Tuenti
<http://missionlocal.org/#tuenti>Twiddla
<http://missionlocal.org/#twiddla>TypePad Post
<http://missionlocal.org/#typepad_post>Viadeo
<http://missionlocal.org/#viadeo>Viber
<http://missionlocal.org/#viber>VK <http://missionlocal.org/#vk>Wanelo
<http://missionlocal.org/#wanelo>Webnews
<http://missionlocal.org/#webnews>WeChat
<http://missionlocal.org/#wechat>Wykop
<http://missionlocal.org/#wykop>XING
<http://missionlocal.org/#xing>Yahoo Bookmarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#yahoo_bookmarks>Yahoo Mail
<http://missionlocal.org/#yahoo_mail>Yahoo Messenger
<http://missionlocal.org/#yahoo_messenger>Yoolink
<http://missionlocal.org/#yoolink>YouMob
<http://missionlocal.org/#youmob>Yummly
<http://missionlocal.org/#yummly>////
AddToAny <https://www.addtoany.com/>
Facebook

<http://missionlocal.org/#facebook>Twitter

<http://missionlocal.org/#twitter>Google+

<http://missionlocal.org/#google_plus>Pinterest

<http://missionlocal.org/#pinterest>Email

<http://missionlocal.org/#email>LinkedIn

<http://missionlocal.org/#linkedin>Reddit

<http://missionlocal.org/#reddit>Tumblr

<http://missionlocal.org/#tumblr>
Google Gmail

<http://missionlocal.org/#google_gmail>AOL Mail

<http://missionlocal.org/#aol_mail>Outlook.com

<http://missionlocal.org/#outlook_com>Yahoo Mail

<http://missionlocal.org/#yahoo_mail>Any email

<http://missionlocal.org/#email_form>Email app

<http://missionlocal.org/#email_form>
More…

:)
