<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/> Beyond Homelessness

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>
//
<https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Foverview%2F&text=SF%20homeless%20problem%20looks%20the%20same%20as%20it%20did%2020%20years%20ago.&hashtags=SFHomelessProject>
// <#>
//
<mailto:?subject=Homelessness%20looks%20the%20same%20as%20it%20did%2020%20years%20ago&body=SF%20Homeless%20Project%3A%20Despite%20the%20efforts%20of%20six%20mayors%2C%20homelessness%20is%20stamped%20so%20deeply%20into%20San%20Francisco%20it%27s%20become%20a%20defining%20characteristic.%0A%0Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Foverview%2F>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
Beyond Homelessness <http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>
//
<https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Foverview%2F&text=SF%20homeless%20problem%20looks%20the%20same%20as%20it%20did%2020%20years%20ago.&hashtags=SFHomelessProject>
// <#>
//
<mailto:?subject=Homelessness%20looks%20the%20same%20as%20it%20did%2020%20years%20ago&body=SF%20Homeless%20Project%3A%20Despite%20the%20efforts%20of%20six%20mayors%2C%20homelessness%20is%20stamped%20so%20deeply%20into%20San%20Francisco%20it%27s%20become%20a%20defining%20characteristic.%0A%0Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Foverview%2F>


  SF homeless problem looks the same as it did 20 years ago

By Kevin Fagan

June 26, 2016

Winter 2002 Grimes Poznikov, called the Automatic Human Jukebox when he
performed at Fisherman’s Wharf in the 1970s and ’80s, was living on the
streets when this photo was taken. Three years later, he was found dead
on a city sidewalk from alcohol poisoning.Photo: Brant Ward, The Chronicle

Fifty years ago, the destitute figures who dotted America’s streets were
called winos and hobos, and in San Francisco they mainly stuck to Third
Street’s Skid Row.

About this project:

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>

The San Francisco Chronicle has joined with more than 70 other news
organizations to focus attention on the seemingly intractable problem of
homelessness in our region.

Read the letter to the city
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/letter-to-the-city/>.

Other stories and multimedia elements of this project can be found at
sfchronicle.com/homeless <http://sfchronicle.com/homeless>.

Then, with the end of the Vietnam War, battle-shocked veterans began
filling urban alleyways. The 1980s brought Reaganomics’ decimation of
federal social and housing programs, and a cascade of the poor and
mentally ill landed on the streets.

By the end of that decade, a new term had entered the lexicon of San
Francisco and the rest of the nation: homeless.

Today, despite the efforts of six mayoral administrations dating back to
Dianne Feinstein, homelessness is stamped into the city so deeply it’s
become a defining characteristic.

San Francisco initially responded by providing temporary, spartan
shelters. Now, it permanently houses thousands of people salvaged from
the streets through multimillion-dollar residential and counseling
programs. But still, the city remains home to sprawling tent cities,
junkies squatting on blankets shooting heroin, and all manner of
anguished destitute people and beggars holding out hands.

The city’s last official count, in 2015, put the adult homeless
population at 6,686, though many officials and advocates for homeless
people say the number is much higher.

Whatever the case, homelessness in San Francisco doesn’t look much
different than it did 10 years ago. Or 20.

Money has always been part of the problem — no matter how much the city
has spent, it has never been enough. But homelessness has also persisted
because of a lack of focus, and because good intentions have fallen short.

Jan. 28, 1986 Mayor Dianne Feinstein and members of her administration,
above, walk through a shantytown slated for dismantling near Seventh and
Berry streets.Photo: Steve Ringman, The Chronicle

Shelters weren’t answer

In the mid-1980s, as a growing number of street people began living out
of shopping carts downtown, Mayor Feinstein joined the rest of the
country in adopting the shelter-bed-and-a-sandwich approach. Offer a
place of respite, the thought was, and they can turn it around.

It didn’t work.

Cities from San Francisco to New York learned that without dealing with
the underlying factors that cause the most acutely troubled people to
lose their housing — mental illness, substance abuse, disabilities and
joblessness — temporary shelters accomplish little. That realization led
to another: Doing more than just providing a cot for the night is
incredibly expensive.

Rahul Mukherjee/The Chronicle
Source: U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development

San Francisco has been a national leader in getting people off the
streets and into housing where they receive the counseling services they
need. Since 2004, it has put more than 22,000 people under roofs. But it
now spends $241 million a year on homeless programs — more than double
the budget for the city Recreation and Park Department.

Such spending can seem like sand shoveled into a tide. Workers at the
eight city departments and 76 private and nonprofit organizations who
devote themselves to restoring street-ravaged lives say there has been a
lot of progress, but no end of frustration and criticism.

“Sometimes I shake my head and think, ‘What are we trying to do here?’”
Mayor Ed Lee said one day as he watched a homeless camp being
disassembled and its inhabitants moved into the city’s one-stop
Navigation Center of homeless housing services. “Some people here — all
they really need is a place to live because they’re impoverished. In
some ways, what we’re doing is reinventing public housing. But there are
so many needs.

“We’re trying everything we can,” Lee said. “It takes time. It is not
easy.”

‘Why can’t they do more?’

Khalid Abdul-Rahim, who works as a security guard along the Embarcadero,
regularly has to shoo homeless people away from Justin Herman Plaza.

“They do new shelters like that Navigation Center, but why can’t they do
more real housing permanently?” he asked one rainy night last winter as
he watched three people shiver under thin blankets in a bus shelter. “I
had one guy pull a fork on me to stab me once out here. I see people all
the time hungry, sleeping outside, miserable. How can this be in a city
this rich? It’s about humanity. Shouldn’t be this way.”

Video: Lea Suzuki, The Chronicle

Few understand the misery of homelessness better than Daniel Pledger.
Born and raised in San Francisco, he’s been without a roof off and on
for many of his 65 years — a notable exception being when he played bass
in the locally popular punk band Seizure in the 1970s and ’80s.

Pledger has spent most of the past year sleeping on the streets around
Potrero Hill. He kicked heroin five years ago, but his struggles with
alcohol have gotten him evicted from one place after another.

“I used to have a wife,” he said recently, sitting on a Tenderloin
sidewalk with a Hefty bag full of his clothes. “I had a place to live.

//
//
Homeless since August, Daniel Pledger rests against a building on
Florida Street. Photo: Lea Suzuki, The Chronicle
Pledger places linens on his bed at the Next Door Shelter. Photo: Lea
Suzuki, The Chronicle
Pledger drinks the last drops from a bottle of vodka he found on the
street. Photo: Lea Suzuki, The Chronicle
Pledger carries his belongings across a street after getting a spot on a
shelter list. Photo: Lea Suzuki, The Chronicle
Pledger arrives at the Next Door Shelter after getting a bed for the
night. Photo: Lea Suzuki, The Chronicle
Pledger sits on his bed at the Next Door Shelter. Photo: Lea Suzuki, The
Chronicle
Pledger collects money from a voucher after using a coin-counting kiosk.
Photo: Lea Suzuki, The Chronicle
Pledger looks at the selection of beer at a store. Photo: Lea Suzuki,
The Chronicle
Pledger kicks an item on the ground as he walks through the Tenderloin.
Photo: Lea Suzuki, The Chronicle
Pledger talks with therapist Lauren Calderon during an appointment at
the Tenderloin Outpatient Clinic. Photo: Lea Suzuki, The Chronicle
Pledger folds up his bedding after a night spent sleeping on Utah
Street. Photo: Lea Suzuki, The Chronicle
Pledger holds a piece of paper he had been carrying that he thought he
had copied from a magazine. Photo: Lea Suzuki, The Chronicle
Pledger walks up to the Coalition on Homelessness offices in the
Tenderloin. Photo: Lea Suzuki, The Chronicle

“Now I am the invisible man. People walk right by me. I have to get
control of this demon — of the booze — but there are a lot of guys like
me out here. Have they given up on us?”

First innovation

Mayor Art Agnos took the first step in San Francisco to move beyond
overnight shelters. In the late 1980s, he created two large complexes
with not just beds, but also mental health and substance-abuse
counselors on site — what have come to be called supportive services. He
envisioned a program that would direct street people from there into
permanent housing.

But there wasn’t enough housing available. As Agnos struggled to ramp up
his plans, a colony of homeless people in front of City Hall grew into
the hundreds and was derisively dubbed “Camp Agnos.”

In July 1990, Agnos finally ordered police to sweep out the Civic Center
squatters, abandoning his promise to transition them inside. But the
stench of civic ineffectiveness had set in. The homelessness issue Agnos
had taken on with such hope sank his bid for re-election.

Today, the shelter-counseling complexes that Agnos created are mere
shelters — and he remains frustrated.

“We do know what to do, but we haven’t had the conviction or the
commitment to make it happen,” Agnos said. “We could end homelessness as
a commonplace occurrence in American cities if we adopted the same kind
of commitment we did in addressing World War II: if we treat it like we
want to win.

“But until the public and the politicians who serve them say we are
going to win this, we won’t. There is a bright spot here and there, and
bleakness in everything else.”

The man who succeeded Agnos as mayor, former Police Chief Frank Jordan,
changed tactics, using police as outreach workers as well as enforcers.
Under his Matrix program, their job was to clear the streets of homeless
camps and aggressive panhandlers and steer them into housing and
counseling programs.

But again, there weren’t enough programs to handle the thousands of
indigents on the streets. And enlisting police as social workers drew
ceaseless attacks from the city’s progressives, torpedoing Jordan’s
re-election bid as well.

Mayor Willie Brown followed with efforts at supportive housing, but
ultimately — and famously — declared the homeless problem unsolvable.

10-year plan

His successor, Gavin Newsom, took the most aggressive stance yet toward
tackling the issue. In 2004, he announced a 10-year plan to end chronic
homelessness.

While it failed to reach that goal, it did result in moving 22,000
homeless people off the streets either into housing or onto buses headed
home. And in the past few years, the majority of the city’s indigent
military veterans — many suffering post-traumautic stress from as far
back as the 1970s — have been moved indoors, thanks in part to a
national effort led by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.

And yet the city’s streets look the same today.

Oct. 13, 2004 Mayor Gavin Newsom embraces a city worker, one of hundreds
called out to survey the homeless. Under Newsom’s 10-year plan to end
chronic homelessness, thousands of indigent people were moved off the
streets.Photo by: Brant Ward, The Chronicle

“There’s a mythology that you can, quote unquote, end homelessness at
any moment,” Newsom said in 2014. “But there are new people coming in,
suffering through the cycles of their lives. It’s the manifestation of
complete, abject failure as a society. We’ll never solve this at City
Hall.”

Former Supervisor Angela Alioto, who was in charge of crafting the
10-year plan, says it failed because it didn’t create enough counseling
and engagement, not just for street people, but for those already housed
— some of whom still panhandle, making the homeless landscape look even
worse than it is.

“You have to do housing, what I call ‘minute clinics’ for health and
counseling in every building, and get the homeless involved in things
that make them feel good about themselves — volunteer work, charity,
whatever,” Alioto said recently as she handed out dollar bills to a
couple of panhandlers in North Beach. “It’s about dignity. Housing is
not the end, it’s the beginning, if you really want to get everyone off
the streets.”

Different types of homeless

What became clear over all the years is that the city’s homeless
population is anything but homogeneous.

Today, there are about 1,500 homeless people in San Francisco in either
individual or family shelters, and another 1,900 in jail, transitional
housing, hospitals or otherwise indoors. Some 3,500 are estimated to be
“unsheltered,” and about half of those make up the hard-core street
population — the most obvious, most troubled and most expensive homeless
people in the city to care for.

Rahul Mukherjee/The Chronicle
About the data: Race chart was multiple response question. Percentages
do not add up to 100 due to rounding. Separately, 19 percent identified
as Hispanic or Latino.
Source: Applied Survey Research

Estimates by officials here and at the Silicon Valley Economic
Roundtable are that each of those chronic cases costs about $80,000 a
year in police, jail, ambulance and other tabs. By contrast, it costs
about $20,000 a year to keep a person in a supportive environment — the
permanent housing where on-site mental therapists, substance abuse
counselors and other social workers can help keep a person off the streets.

Many chronically homeless people crowd into the Tenderloin, where soup
kitchens, rehab clinics and poverty-aid organizations are centered.
Homeless drug addicts have spread into areas where their dealers are
easiest to find: heroin in the Mission District, methamphetamine around
Division Street, crack in the Tenderloin.

Mental illness

Perhaps the most heart-rending subpopulation is made up of the mentally
ill. Here, good intentions are at the heart of how San Francisco’s
streets became an open-air mental ward, with deranged people railing at
telephone poles or passersby, or muttering to themselves for hours.

Back in the 1960s and ’70s, state-run mental institutions, where
troubled people were once committed against their will, came to be seen
by advocates as a means of violating individuals’ rights. Closing them
saved money.

With their demise, the plan, supported by both conservatives and
liberals, was for community-based centers across the country to help
people instead — but those were underfunded. The result: A growing
population of mentally ill people were turned loose to fend for themselves.

Today, it’s estimated that more than a third of homeless people in San
Francisco suffer from mental illness. The city would need hundreds of
new psychiatric-care beds to get them off the sidewalks — the current
inventory of fewer than 1,000 is not nearly enough.

July 28, 2004 Ricky Smith and Jill May sleep near Jones Street as
tourists walk by.Photo: Brant Ward, The Chronicle

But even if it created those beds, getting people into them is
difficult. Unless they are judged a danger to themselves or others, the
mentally ill can’t be forced into care.

A prime example: Tatiana and her daughter, Oksana, Ukrainian immigrants
who speak little English and give no last name. They’ve been on the
streets for at least a decade, with brief stints in emergency housing.

The pair pose no threat as they push their heaped shopping cart through
downtown and the Mission, sleeping in doorways and glancing suspiciously
at everyone who passes by, so they can’t be compelled to leave the
streets. Any conversation with them veers quickly, wildly off track.

Two social workers, barred by state privacy rules from being identified,
interviewed them several times. They concluded that Tatiana is in her
50s and Oksana is in her 30s, and that they are probably mentally ill or
impaired. For three years, social workers have tried to get them to give
their required permission for psychiatric care — but the pair won’t commit.

The two women have repeatedly told The Chronicle through Ukrainian
translators they don’t need help.

“We’re afraid of everyone, afraid we’ll be sent back to the old
country,” Tatiana said. “Russians want us to leave the city, they are
bad, they are everywhere, but we won’t go. We’re not homeless. We are
just on the street. We will not go inside where the Russkies can get us.”

Supportive housing

Mental health programs weren’t the only ones bludgeoned by budget cuts.
Federal housing aid and social programs were slashed by as much as 80
percent in the 1980s, and state and local governments couldn’t catch up.
Many of the people who wound up homeless that decade have never left the
street, pushing the average age among the street population to 58.

Today, with the minimum wage supplying about half or less of the buying
power it did in 1980 and about 30 percent of Americans living at or near
poverty level, there is a continual flow of people becoming homeless,
said Peter Edelman, a Georgetown University law professor specializing
in poverty.

“We never even replaced the affordable-housing support that was
destroyed in the 1980s, so if you want to solve homelessness, you need
to not have so much poverty,” Edelman said. “What we’ve got is a problem
of homelessness created because we haven’t done what we should have in
the first place, so now we have to handle it in the second place — with
techniques like supportive housing.”

That’s one area in which San Francisco, with among the highest rents and
greatest gulfs between rich and poor in the country, is actually a
leader in innovation.

Over the past decade, the city has refined a system of sending outreach
counselors into the street to persuade the chronically indigent to
accept housing, shelter, employment or medical help — and then move into
permanent supportive housing before they can wander off again. In the
past 12 years, San Francisco has put about 12,000 people into such housing.

The trouble is that the city is at least 2,500 supportive-housing units
short of what it needs to clear the streets of the most expensive and
visible chronically homeless people — about 1,500 of them — and to stay
ahead of the incoming chronic population every year. But that’s not
insurmountable.

Sept. 22, 2003 Homeless men wait for the shelter at Fifth and Brannan
streets to reopen after it was closed for cleaning. Photo: Brant Ward,
The Chronicle

The situation could be dramatically improved through new private-public
funding models, cheaper forms of modular housing, and streamlining
techniques for helping people move out of supportive housing after
they’ve been stabilized.

If the city’s shelters were expanded by hundreds of beds, and fashioned
more along the lines of the 15-month-old Navigation Center, they could
finally become the routing tools into housing that Agnos envisioned a
quarter-century ago. The center at Mission and 16th streets takes in
street campers with their partners, pets and gear and surrounds them
with case managers to help them get their lives together quickly. The
city is already moving toward change: A second center is scheduled to
open at Market and 12th streets this week, and the Board of Supervisors
has voted to open five more Navigation Centers over the next two years.

With the city’s creation this spring of the Department of Homelessness
and Supportive Housing, streamlining city services for street people
into a more direct focus on housing and counseling, San Francisco has
its best opportunity in years to clear the streets.

“We know how to do what we need to do,” said Jeff Kositsky, head of the
new department. “The approach now is the same — we just have to be
creative.”

Rahul Mukherjee/The Chronicle
Source: U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development

Bit of optimism

Jennifer Friedenbach, whose Coalition on Homelessness advocacy group has
spent decades pushing the city to create more housing and services for
the indigent, is skeptically optimistic.

Even though Matrix is in the trash bin of history and police leaders
insist cracking down isn’t the way to solve homelessness, Friedenbach
said, the city still puts too much emphasis on breaking up camps whose
residents have nowhere good to go and issuing tickets for
quality-of-life violations like sitting on sidewalks.

A city report in May that found taxpayers spend $20 million a year
enforcing such laws quantifies the futility of the effort, she said. To
Friedenbach, ticketing street people boils down to just two things: “San
Francisco is either ruining homeless people’s lives and wasting money,
or harassing homeless people and wasting money.

“With little to show for it, it is time for a new approach,” she said.
For Friedenbach, “new” actually means ramping up old concepts — more
efficiently.

“It’s about money,” she said. “We need a sustained revenue source to
double the housing units for homeless people, and to do prevention to
keep people in their homes and to not become homeless to begin with.

“It’s not that complicated,” she said. “I think in San Francisco, people
are ready to do something different. But then, I’ve seen that before.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Reporter

Kevin Fagan • kfagan@sfchronicle.com <mailto:kfagan@sfchronicle.com> •
@KevinChron <https://twitter.com/KevinChron>

Interactive producers

Lucio Villa • lvilla@sfchronicle.com <mailto:lvilla@sfchronicle.com> •
@luciovilla <https://twitter.com/luciovilla>
Benjamin Din • bdin@sfchronicle.com <mailto:bdin@sfchronicle.com> •
@benjamindin <https://twitter.com/benjamindin>
Emma O'Neill • eoneill@sfchronicle.com <mailto:eoneill@sfchronicle.com>
• @emmaruthoneill <https://twitter.com/emmaruthoneill>
------------------------------------------------------------------------


        Editorial: SF's homeless problem a civic disgrace

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/civic-disgrace>


        Solution starts with supportive housing

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/supportive-housing>


        The mentally ill: Streets' costliest residents

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/mental-health>


        Can the shelter system be successful?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/shelters>


        Can law enforcement curb the crisis?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/encampments>


        How many people live on our streets?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/numbers>


        Faces of homelessness: Portraits of life on SF's streets

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/faces-of-the-streets>


        In their words: How SF's last 5 mayors tackled homelessness

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/letters-from-the-mayors>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>


    The sign in service is not functioning right now.


    Please try again in a few minutes

If the issues continue, please contact our customer service at

Phone:

Email:


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in


Don't have a profile?


            Don't have a subscription?

Sign up Subscribe

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a profile using


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password
Send me email offers

Already have a profile? Sign In

By clicking "Next" or signing in you confirm that you accept our Terms
and Conditions <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and have read
and understood our Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in


          Hi,


          You are signed in

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>

Maintain your delivery address, payment details and place a vacation
hold in Subscriber Portal.

MANAGE SUBSCRIPTION

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/account/>

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>
SUBSCRIBE

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>
SIGN OUT

<javascript:void(0)>


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our
Terms of Service <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy
Policy <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign In

Keep me signed in
Show password Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Paid Subscription Access Only

You are now signed in but you must have a San Francisco Chronicle
subscription to access any content.

Already have a subscription?

ACTIVATE

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Foverview%2F>


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          About Me

DISPLAY NAMEDisplay names must begin with an alpha-numeric character.
They can not contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor
may they contain obscenities.

This display name is already in use. Please enter a different display name.

You must enter a display name.

Display names must begin with an alpha-numeric character. They can not
contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor may they
contain obscenities.

EMAIL ADDRESSChanging this email address will also change the email
address associated with your subscription

You must enter an email address.

GENDERThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

BIRTH YEARThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

* are required fields


          SF Chronicle Subscription

You can manage your delivery address, payment details, delete your
account and more subscription details in the subscriber portal.

Manage Subscription

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/account/>


            Get it on all your devices


    Unlimited digital access with every subscription

SFChronicle.com | App for iPhone and iPad
e-edition (daily print replica) | Exclusive member experiences and discounts

SUBSCRIBE NOW AND SAVE!

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/> I have a subscription

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Foverview%2F>


          Password

EDIT

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.


          Password

CANCEL

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.

CURRENT PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Current password is incorrect

Current password field is required

NEW PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain both
upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

New password field is required

CONFIRM PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Confirm password field is required

Show password


    Welcome, !

Your profile, subscription, linked accounts, and newsletter selections
are not viewable by other readers on our sites. Your profile can only be
seen by you. Any comments you post to articles on our sites can be seen
by all readers and moderators.


          Newsletter Preferences

You are subscribed to the following:

  * Top O’ the Bay

    The latest stories from across the San Francisco Bay Area

  * Notes & Errata

    Mark Morford's irreverent and highly satiric weekly column

  * Breaking News

    Be notified when when big stories break or critical warnings are
    issued for the Bay Area

  * Sports

    Coverage of all your Bay Area teams

  * Inside Scoop

    Insider knowledge for Bay Area foodies

  * New Flicks

    The latest movie reviews

  * Business & Technology

    The latest in business, finance, and tech news

  * 5 Things To Do

    Great events across the Bay Area selected just for you


          San Francisco Chronicle Newsletters

  * Chronicle Commuter

    A curated selection of stories just in time for your afternoon commute

  * Membership Updates

    The latest from our membership benefits program (subscribers only)

  * e-edition Reminder

    Reminder of your daily e-edition, a replica of the print newspaper
    (subscribers only)

  * Subscription Reminders

    Notices and reminders about your subscription (subscribers only)


          Email Notifications and Offers

  * Feature Updates

    Special features, new site sections and more from The Chronicle and
    SFGATE

  * Promotions & Sales

    Subscription offers from the San Francisco Chronicle and other
    special promotions

  * Surveys

    Surveys about your Chronicle print edition, websites and other
    digital products

  * Advertiser Special Offers

    Receive special offers sent by us on behalf of select advertisers
    and partners

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in Forgot Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

You must be a subscriber to access this content.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

Stay signed in
Forgot Your Password?


          Sign In

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Back to Sign In

Email address field is required.

Email address is incorrect.

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


          Link Profiles

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot Your Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Forgot Your Password?


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Link Profiles

Stay signed in

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Forgot Your Password?


          SIGN IN


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot Your Password?
Keep me signed in


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Sign In With Your Existing San Francisco Chronicle Account
Sign In
OR

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Keep me signed in
Forgot Your Password?

By signing in, you agree to our terms of use
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/>.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password?

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in
Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot password?

Create an account

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a sign-in for your subscription account


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password

Have a profile on SFGate or San Francisco Chronicle already?

Sign In

Contact Customer Service at 800-310-2455 or email us at
homedelivery@sfchronicle.com <mailto:homedelivery@sfchronicle.com>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in

