Homepage <https://medium.com/>
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
<https://medium.com/bill-melinda-gates-foundation?source=logo-lo_c9c5f5ebb63f---17b6cbb23851>
Follow
<https://twitter.com/gatesfoundation><https://facebook.com/gatesfoundation>
Sign in / Sign up
<https://medium.com/m/signin?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fbill-melinda-gates-foundation%2Fhomelessness-the-symptom-of-a-much-larger-challenge-e88f74f81a64%3Fsource%3D---------19--------->
Next story


        Lessons from 15 Years: Working to Improve American Education

<https://medium.com/bill-melinda-gates-foundation/lessons-from-15-years-working-to-improve-american-education-a63647f6ef18?source=read_next_metabar----------41>
9

  * Share
  *
    9

  *
*

Go to the profile of David Wertheimer

<https://medium.com/@DavidWSeattle?source=post_header_lockup>
David Wertheimer
<https://medium.com/@DavidWSeattle?source=post_header_lockup>BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Deputy Director at the Bill & Melinda Gates foundation, working make
U.S. family homelessness rare and brief.
Jun 28

------------------------------------------------------------------------


  Homelessness: The Symptom of a Much Larger Challenge

/From a speech at the annual breakfast of the //Central Florida
Commission on Homelessness/ <http://rethinkhomelessness.org/>/in
Orlando, FL, on June 23./

I had a rough afternoon yesterday as I walked up South Orange Avenue
from the Phillips Center to the Pulse nightclub. And not because, as
someone from Seattle, I am unaccustomed to long walks in 91 degree heat.
The memorials that line the street are overwhelming. I will endeavor
this morning to not burst into tears as I did so many times during my
walk in your city.

Even before I arrived here yesterday, the city’s pain hit me hard in
very personal and specific ways. As a gay man in his 61st year, over my
lifetime I have seen my community emerge from the shadows into proud
engagement as part of mainstream America. As a social worker who, in the
1980’s, served as Executive Director of the NYC Gay and Lesbian
Anti-Violence Project <http://www.avp.org/>, I am intimately familiar
with the devastation that comes from being part of a community that is
routinely challenged by physical acts of violence targeting our
visibility, our energy, and our lives.

But the scale of the devastation experienced in Orlando is
unprecedented. The automatic weapons fire that ripped into the heart of
the LGBTQ community here over the course of a few /hours/ took more
lives than the sum total of the anti-gay homicides I worked on during
the /five years/ I was directly engaged with this issue in New York City.

Today, I stand before you as a proud survivor of decades of oppression
as a gay man, as a survivor of the ghastly early years of the AIDS
epidemic, and as a legally married man with a wonderful husband and
three marvelous children in my life. But I also stand before you,
realizing the vulnerability I face — and that we all face — each and
every day of our lives.

All that said, I am not here to share my life story. Or even to begin to
understand the level of pain that Orlando has experienced — and will
continue to experience — as the community moves together towards a
healing process that will take so long, and will never, ever recover the
priceless value of the many lives lost.

I’m focusing these comments on homelessness, and about what I believe it
will take to end homelessness communities across the United States.

There is, however, a strong connection between the issue of homelessness
and the shooting of primarily Latino and African-American gay and
lesbian men and women who were celebrating shared community at Pulse on
June 12th. People who are experiencing homelessness, people of color,
and people who are gay, are all too often citizens living on the margins
of our society who seek refuge and safety, be it in a community created
in a nightclub, or a church or neighborhood organization, or through
becoming part of the larger community of people who are safely,
affordably and permanently housed.

People who are experiencing homelessness, communities of color, and
people who are gay, are still widely misunderstood. Too many people
believe that those who are experiencing homelessness actually choose it,
and those who are gay have chosen that sexual identity. Although we know
in both cases that these views are utterly false, they continue to
persist. And with these misunderstandings come distrust, fear and hatred.

In their mildest form, that fear manifests itself in discomfort. That
discomfort can grow into rejection and hostility. At its most virulent,
the fear and hatred become deadly. Back when I was working on anti-gay
violence in New York City, it was still considered fair sport to go out
on a gay bashing spree on a Friday night. Today, young African-American
men are still gunned down at a rate far disproportionate to their
percentage in the overall population. And sadly, these days attacking
people who are experiencing homelessness — sometimes with deadly
consequences — also seems to be acceptable for far too many Americans.

The nexus between homelessness, communities of color and LGBTQ youth and
young adults lays bare historic patterns of oppression in our nation.

LGBTQ youth — and LGBTQ youth of color — are disproportionally
over-represented among the ranks of those who are young and homeless.
Although they may represent about 5% of the overall population, studies
confirm that LGBTQ youth represent up to 40% of homeless kids. Rejected
by families and ejected from their homes when they make their identities
known to their parents, LGBTQ youth face the harsh realities and dangers
of life on the street far more often than their straight peers. Once
homeless, these youth — often struggling with the aftermath of physical
trauma and the psychological consequences of isolation and rejection — 
too easily become entangled in the dangerous web of substance abuse,
survival sex, and the growing list of activities associated with the
criminalization of homelessness.

Many people across central Florida, and the entire nation, have been
working tirelessly to end homelessness in America. I salute you for your
remarkable efforts. On a good day, it feels like we are making true
progress. On a bad day, we are overwhelmed by the number of people who
are still becoming homeless, knowing that the resources at our disposal
are not up to the task of addressing the onslaught that we face.

Having worked in the field of homelessness for a quarter century, I’ve
come to some difficult conclusions. As hard as I, and countless others,
have worked, we remain in a crisis of truly epidemic proportions.
Despite all of our efforts, on the surface the problem appears to be
getting worse, rather than better. I have to ask myself: Is that true?
And, if so, why?

Next week, media outlets in San Francisco
<https://medium.com/search?q=%23sfhomelessproject>, Houston, and in my
community, Seattle
<http://crosscut.com/2016/06/homeless-in-seattle-media-june-29/>, will
be coordinating coverage around the issue of homelessness. Shining a
light on this topic, and at such a large scale, is commendable,
note-worthy, and even unprecedented. But in the midst of the increased
attention being paid to homelessness, we need to focus on the underlying
challenge: Developing effective solutions that can truly end homelessness.

    If we are to succeed in achieving this goal, we need to remind
    ourselves that homelessness isn’t, in and of itself, the problem we
    need to solve. It’s the symptom of a much larger challenge: Extreme
    poverty and inequity. Poverty that places housing out of reach of
    many who are already working full-time in their communities at the
    prevailing minimum wage. Inequity that closes the doorways to
    opportunity for too many Americans.

This poverty is exacerbated by perennial under-funding of housing
subsidies and supports, mental health and substance abuse treatment,
domestic violence services, and a host of other safety net programs that
are unable to keep up with the needs of populations trapped at the
bottom of the socio-economic ladder.

This is also poverty that manifests itself disproportionately among
communities of color. In King County, Washington, an African-American
person is five times more likely to become homeless
<http://allhomekc.org/the-problem/#demographics> than someone who is
white. A Native American person is seven times more likely to
experiencing homeless. If we are not talking about racial disparities
when we’re talking about homelessness, we’re not having the right
conversation.

Treating the symptom of homelessness through increasing the
effectiveness of the crisis response system is, in and of itself, an
essential task. Alleviating the symptoms of a serious illness is a
critical part of treatment. But we cannot stop there if we want to get
to the point at which homelessness is truly rare. That requires moving
upstream from the crisis response system to get to the root issues:

  * The lack of an adequate supply of affordable housing.
  * The absence of a sufficient number of jobs that pay a living wage.
  * The inequitable access to educational opportunities and
    post-secondary degrees and the economic security they can provide.
  * The failures of our child welfare system, our behavioral health
    system, and numerous other key components of our core social
    infrastructure that are unable to meet the full set of needs of our
    nation’s people.
  * The ongoing challenges of structural racism and multi-generational
    trauma, experienced both by recent refugee populations as well as
    communities that have already spent centuries as Americans.

I don’t mean to paint a bleak picture here. Yes, poverty is tenacious.
But when I get depressed about solutions, I think about why my
ancestors, (and probably yours, unless you are Native American or
arrived here involuntarily), came to this place to begin with. It was
all about opportunity. The opportunity for a better way of life. The
opportunity to be free from discrimination, oppression, violence,
trauma, and homelessness. Ultimately, it’s that vision of opportunity
that is what being in this country is all about. That’s a vision not
worth giving up.

Whether we are working to end violence against marginalized communities
like lesbians and gay men, or working to end homelessness — which
disproportionately impacts those marginalized populations — we are
actually all working, together, towards the same goals: Providing the
safe spaces and loving environments which are the essential platforms
from which healthy, hopeful and fully engaged communities can emerge.

I encourage each of us to continue to insist of ourselves, our
colleagues, our leaders — and even those who oppose our efforts to house
the homeless and embrace our many differences — that we move forward
together to do nothing less than continue to create the types of
communities of which we can be proud — whether as citizens of Orlando,
of Florida, of the United States, or of the planet we all of necessity
must share and call home.

We can do this. The survival of our communities demands nothing less.

/Cross-posted at //Funders Together to End Homelessness/
<http://www.funderstogether.org/homelessness_the_symptom_of_a_much_larger_challenge>/(FTEH).
On June 23, FTEH Board Member David Wertheimer spoke in Orlando, FL, at
The Road Home Breakfast gathering of the Central Florida Commission on
Homelessness. Still reeling from the shock of the deadly attack against
the LGBTQ community at the Pulse nightclub that took 49 young lives and
wounded 53 others, the city’s officials nonetheless made the decision to
move ahead with The Road Home event, which became yet one more step in
the long and painful journey to a community’s recovery./

Homeless <https://medium.com/tag/homeless?source=post>Poverty
<https://medium.com/tag/poverty?source=post>SFHomelessProject
<https://medium.com/tag/sfhomelessproject?source=post>Seattle
<https://medium.com/tag/seattle?source=post>Orlando
<https://medium.com/tag/orlando?source=post>
9
#
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Go to the profile of David Wertheimer

<https://medium.com/@DavidWSeattle?source=footer_card>


      David Wertheimer <https://medium.com/@DavidWSeattle>

Deputy Director at the Bill & Melinda Gates foundation, working make
U.S. family homelessness rare and brief.

#
Follow
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation

<https://medium.com/bill-melinda-gates-foundation?source=footer_card>


      Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
      <https://medium.com/bill-melinda-gates-foundation?source=footer_card>

Thoughtful conversations on building a better world.

<https://medium.com/bill-melinda-gates-foundation/innovators-in-an-unconnected-world-e3aef8fb261e?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
More from Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
Innovators in an unconnected world

<https://medium.com/bill-melinda-gates-foundation/innovators-in-an-unconnected-world-e3aef8fb261e?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
Go to the profile of Dr Ayo Ajayi

<https://medium.com/@DrAAjayi>
Dr Ayo Ajayi
<https://medium.com/@DrAAjayi?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
13
<https://medium.com/the-mission/millennials-are-now-the-majority-in-the-u-s-69d239e52df6?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Also tagged Poverty
Millennials are now the majority in the U.S.

<https://medium.com/the-mission/millennials-are-now-the-majority-in-the-u-s-69d239e52df6?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Go to the profile of Paul Dughi

<https://medium.com/@pauldughi>
Paul Dughi
<https://medium.com/@pauldughi?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
21
<https://medium.com/bill-melinda-gates-foundation/reflections-on-my-first-year-as-ceo-of-the-gates-foundation-3d43f437345f?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-41>
More from Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
Reflections On My First Year as CEO of the Gates Foundation

<https://medium.com/bill-melinda-gates-foundation/reflections-on-my-first-year-as-ceo-of-the-gates-foundation-3d43f437345f?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-41>
Go to the profile of Sue Desmond-Hellmann

<https://medium.com/@SueDHellmann>
Sue Desmond-Hellmann
<https://medium.com/@SueDHellmann?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-41>
111
Responses
Write a response…
Unknown user
No responses yet
Show all responses

×

Don’t miss David Wertheimer’s next story
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
David WertheimerDavid Wertheimer
