KQED Menu

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Menu

    <#>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs & Blogs

        <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Special Coverage

        <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs <#> Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California


  KQED News <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

Search

<#search-container>


  KQED News Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Search for:

Newsroom <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/kqed-newsroom/>


  Homelessness More Complex Since San Jose Shut Down ‘The Jungle’

Workers clean out the Jungle in San Jose, California, on Wednesday, Dec.
4, 2014. The city of San Jose cleared out the part of Coyote Creek that
was home to around 300 people.

Workers clean out the Jungle in San Jose, California, on Wednesday, Dec.
4, 2014. The city of San Jose cleared out the part of Coyote Creek that
was home to around 300 people. (/James Tensuan/KQED/)

By *Thuy Vu <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/about/staff.jsp>*
June 29, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/homelessness-more-complex-since-san-jose-shut-down-the-jungle/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/homelessness-more-complex-since-san-jose-shut-down-the-jungle/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/homelessness-more-complex-since-san-jose-shut-down-the-jungle/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/homelessness-more-complex-since-san-jose-shut-down-the-jungle/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/homelessness-more-complex-since-san-jose-shut-down-the-jungle/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/homelessness-more-complex-since-san-jose-shut-down-the-jungle/?share=email&nb=1>
*

San Jose sits in Silicon Valley — one of the wealthiest regions in the
country — yet homelessness is a persistent problem. Take a look around
some of the biggest streets in East San Jose and you’ll notice what are
essentially modern nomadic villages. On Lucretia Avenue, right across
from Yerba Buena High School, we found numerous people living out of
cars and campers.

*Homelessness is a complex issue. Learn more >>
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>*

sfproject3 <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>

That’s where we spotted Joseph Luprete sweeping the sidewalk in front of
his camper. He bought it about a month ago for $690 and recently blacked
out the windows.

“At night with the lights on, the cops will drive by and try to ticket
me or tell me to move along because it’s illegal to live in your car, “
Luprete says. “I blacked it out so, at night, it doesn’t look like
anyone is in here.”

Luprete works nearly full time as a valet parking cars and makes $2,500
a month. He says it’s not enough to afford a one-bedroom apartment in
San Jose, so he takes his chances every night living on the streets,
knowing he’ll probably get cited by the police. “Oh yeah, they will bang
on the door at 2, 3 in the morning and look at you like a homeless piece
of crap. They just say, ‘You gotta move, you can’t be here.’ ”

It’s estimated there are more than 4,000 homeless people in San Jose.
About 500 of them are living out of their vehicles, according to Ray
Bramson, San Jose’s homelessness response manager
<https://www.sanjoseca.gov/index.aspx?NID=738>.

“One of the solutions the city is looking at is finding safe parking
lots where people can park and get connected to housing and long-term
services,” Bramson says. He notes the city has identified one potential
partner and is working out some issues to have it as a pilot site.

Unlike San Francisco, where tent encampments are easily spotted on
sidewalks and under freeway overpasses, many of San Jose’s homeless stay
out of sight by setting up shelter deep along the city’s 140 miles of
trails, creeks and riverbeds.

This was the case with The Jungle
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2014/12/04/homeless-evicted-from-the-jungle-in-san-jose>,
which was one of the nation’s largest homeless encampments until the
city shut it down in 2014. More than 300 people were moved out and the
area was fenced off.

We returned to the site of The Jungle recently with Leonard Jackson, who
says he spent five years living there. The area is now overgrown with
weeds. But when Jackson called it home, The Jungle resembled a small
community.

Goods that cannot be hauled away by residents are left at the Jungle in
San Jose, Calif. on Wednesday, Dec. 4, 2014. The city of San Jose
cleared out the part of Coyote Creek that was home to around 300 people.
Goods that cannot be hauled away by residents are left at the Jungle in
San Jose, California, on Wednesday, Dec. 4, 2014. The city of San Jose
cleared out the part of Coyote Creek that was home to around 300 people.
(James Tensuan/KQED)

“It was tents. It was couches, tarps, stoves, it was motor homes,” he says.

Jackson ended up homeless due to drug addiction. He says many people in
the Jungle struggled with drugs and mental health issues, but there were
also plenty of people who were working and barely surviving.

“9-to-5 good paying jobs. They just didn’t have no place to live,”
Jackson says. “I knew people who worked for Google, who worked for
Cisco, and they were homeless right here in The Jungle with us.”

The Jungle’s closure led to new doors opening for Jackson. Outreach
workers helped him get off drugs, find a job and move into a new home
subsidized by the city. According to San Jose housing officials,more
than 200 former residents of The Jungle now have homes,
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2015/11/20/a-year-after-the-jungle-san-joses-new-approach-to-homelessness>
but the city still faces a daunting challenge.

“People can’t find units in the market. The vacancy rate for rentals
hovers around 4 percent,” says Bramson. “We’re doing everything we can,
rehabbing a lot of hotels and motels, buying manufactured housing that’s
assembled elsewhere and bringing it on site to get people into
supportive services that they need to keep them stable and safe.”


In what’s being hailed as the largest effort yet to end regional
homelessness in the South Bay, the Santa Clara County Board of
Supervisors recently approved a $950 million affordable housing bond
measure for the November ballot. A 2015 survey found that Santa Clara
County has more than 6,500 homeless people, which would make it the
fourth-largest homeless population in the nation.

Leonard Jackson is grateful he won’t have to wait until November to find
out if more help is coming. He says he’s thankful every day for the
outreach workers who found him in The Jungle.

“By the grace of God, these people came along and saved a lot of us,”
Jackson says. “It feels great to have my own place, my own job,
security. It feels like I am on top of the world.”

/Thuy Vu reported on this story for “KQED Newsroom,” a weekly news
magazine program on television, radio and online. Watch Fridays at 8
p.m. on KQED Public Television 9, listen on Sundays at 6 p.m. on KQED
Public Radio 88.5 FM and watch on demand here./

Explore: Housing <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>, News
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/news/>, affordable housing
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/affordable-housing/>, homelessness
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/homelessness/>, housing
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/housing-3/>, San Jose
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/san-jose/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/homelessness-more-complex-since-san-jose-shut-down-the-jungle/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/homelessness-more-complex-since-san-jose-shut-down-the-jungle/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/homelessness-more-complex-since-san-jose-shut-down-the-jungle/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/homelessness-more-complex-since-san-jose-shut-down-the-jungle/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/homelessness-more-complex-since-san-jose-shut-down-the-jungle/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/homelessness-more-complex-since-san-jose-shut-down-the-jungle/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

0 Comments
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/homelessness-more-complex-since-san-jose-shut-down-the-jungle/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related

A Year After 'The Jungle,' San Jose's New Approach to Homelessness

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2015/11/20/a-year-after-the-jungle-san-joses-new-approach-to-homelessness>

Tent Cities Compete With Super Bowl City for Attention

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/02/02/tent-cities-compete-with-super-bowl-city-for-attention>

How San Francisco and L.A. Are Addressing Homelessness

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/how-san-francisco-and-la-are-addressing-homelessness>

Homeless Evicted From 'The Jungle' in San Jose

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2014/12/04/homeless-evicted-from-the-jungle-in-san-jose>

Homelessness in San Francisco's Mission: A Neighborhood View

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/07/12/homelessness-in-san-franciscos-mission-a-neighborhood-view/>

Santa Clara County's Homeless Hope for Hotel Rooms After Shelter Closes

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2014/12/27/santa-clara-county-homelessness-jungle-shelters>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>


  Post navigation

Prev How San Francisco and L.A. Are Addressing Homelessness

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/how-san-francisco-and-la-are-addressing-homelessness/>
Next California Congressional Republicans Urge Blocking Obamacare for
Undocumented Immigrants

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/california-congressional-republicans-urge-blocking-obamacare-for-undocumented-immigrants/>



  About KQED News

KQED News provides daily and in-depth coverage of regional and state
issues, and is a service of KQED Public Radio, TV, and Interactive.

  * Contributors <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/contributors/>
  * Contact the Newsroom <mailto:assignmentdesk@kqed.org>


  About KQED

  * About <http://www.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://www.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://www.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://www.kqed.org/about/help/index.jsp>


  Follow KQED News

  * Follow Us on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KQEDnews>
  * Follow Us on Twitter <https://twitter.com/kqednews>
  * Connect on Instagram <http://instagram.com/kqednews>
  * Connect on Google+ <https://plus.google.com/117185877001714843452/posts>
  * Connect on YouTube <https://www.youtube.com/user/KQEDnews>

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

[blank image]
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.


  Get the facts!

Close

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil
:)
