<http://invest.berkeleyside.com/>

  * Home <http://berkeleyside.com/>

<http://www.facebook.com/berkeleyside>

<http://twitter.com/berkeleyside>

<http://www.flickr.com/groups/berkeleyside/>

<http://feeds.feedburner.com/berkeleyside/XGaT>
		 

	
powered by
	

  *

Yellow tags marked the location of evidence at the 2010 shooting scene.
Photo: Frances Dinkelspiel
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/12/07/convicted-killer-sentenced-to-118-years-to-life-after-berkeley-shooting/>

Convicted killer sentenced to 118 years to life
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/12/07/convicted-killer-sentenced-to-118-years-to-life-after-berkeley-shooting/>

German School
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/12/07/future-uncertain-for-berkeley-school-due-to-unsafe-building/>

Future uncertain for Berkeley school due to unsafe building
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/12/07/future-uncertain-for-berkeley-school-due-to-unsafe-building/>

Photo: Courtesy of Ben Gould
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/12/07/ben-gould-enters-campaign-for-district-4-council-seat/>

Ben Gould enters campaign for District 4 council seat
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/12/07/ben-gould-enters-campaign-for-district-4-council-seat/>



  <http://www.berkeleyside.com/>

Skip to content

<#content>

  * NOSH

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/nosh/>
  * All the News

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/all-the-news/>
  * Events

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/events-calendar/#/94703-berkeley/all/today>
  * Op-Eds

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/category/opinionator/>
  * Obituaries

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/category/obituaries/>
  * About

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/about-berkeleyside/>
  * Advertise

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/advertise/>
  * Support us

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/support-us-by-becoming-a-member/>
  * Invest

    <https://invest.berkeleyside.com/>

Get Berkeleyside's Daily Briefing email

Community <http://www.berkeleyside.com/category/community-2/>


  Homelessness in Berkeley: The fact sheet

June 29, 2016 12:00 pm by Emilie Raguso
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/author/emilie/>	
Berkeleyside readers asked a number of questions about homelessness in
the city. We try to answer some of them below. Photo: Quinn Dombrowski
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/quinnanya/15677291260/>

Berkeleyside readers asked a number of questions about homelessness in
the city. We try to answer some of them below. Photo: Quinn Dombrowski
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/quinnanya/15677291260/>

You asked
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/21/share-your-questions-about-homelessness-in-berkeley/>
and we did our best to address some of the basic questions that came up
for readers last week about homelessness in Berkeley. Many of the
inquiries have and will help shape Berkeleyside coverage, but are too
complex to tackle here.

Below, we take a look at the demographics, the resources and the types
of services offered in Berkeley, and offer some perspectives on a few of
the most frequently asked questions. There’s so much more to say. But we
hope this fact sheet on homelessness, along with the rest of the
coverage in our Berkeley Homeless Project
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-homeless-project/>, can serve
as a jumping off point and perhaps a baseline for the broader community
to help promote a deeper understanding going forward.

*THE DEMOGRAPHICS*

*City estimate of homeless population, October 2015:* More than 1,200
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2015/10/26/ohlone-park-neighbors-brainstorm-about-homeless-influx/>

*EveryOne Home’s estimated Berkeley population, January 2015:* 834
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/2016-01-26-Item-21-Berkeley-2015-Homeless.pdf>

*Percent change in the overall homeless estimate since 2009:* 23%

*Unsheltered vs. sheltered homeless, January 2015:* 568 vs. 266

*Percent change in unsheltered homeless from 2009 to 2015:* 53%

*Racial demographics:* About 40% white, 40% black

Racial demographics from the 2015 point-in-time count conducted by
EveryOne Home.
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/2016-01-26-Item-21-Berkeley-2015-Homeless.pdf>

Racial demographic estimates from the 2015 point-in-time count
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/2016-01-26-Item-21-Berkeley-2015-Homeless.pdf>
conducted in Berkeley by EveryOne Home.

*Victims of domestic violence:* 252

*Chronically homeless individuals:* 203

*Chronically homeless families:* 7 (for a total of 29 people)

*Adults reporting HIV/AIDS:* 21

*Adults reporting a substance use disorder:* 65

*Drug use on the rise in Berkeley, according to anecdotal evidence:*
Methamphetamine use, opiate addiction

*Adults reporting a serious mental illness:* 200

*Estimated number of Berkeley Police calls that involve mentally ill
individuals
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2015/04/16/mental-health-calls-are-1-drain-on-berkeley-police-resources/>
on the street:* 35%

*Estimated rank in demand on BPD resources:* #1

A man rests outside the men's shelter in June. Photo: Emilie Raguso

A man rests in a quiet courtyard on a bench outside the men’s shelter in
June. Photo: Emilie Raguso

*Number of households with at least one adult and one child:* 45

*Number of children under 18 in those households (total):* 80

*Number of young adults, 18-24:* 13

*Transition-age youth (age 18-24):* 77

*Unsheltered youth:* 36

*Veterans:* 79

*Decrease in homeless veterans, 2009 to 2015:* 40%

*Prior to July 2015, percentage of people who remained homeless after
receiving services:* 52%

*Percent that went on to permanent housing:* 38%

A pet watches over his owner's possessions on Shattuck Avenue in June.
Photo: Emilie Raguso

A pet watches over his owner’s possessions on Shattuck Avenue in June.
Photo: Emilie Raguso

*THE RESOURCES*

*Amount allocated in 2015-16 for services (community agencies):* $3.44
million

*Amount of total funding used for drop-in centers (before July 2015):* 54%

*Amount used for rapid rehousing and permanent housing (before July
2015):* 9%

*Funding for The Hub, January through June 2016:* 28% of all city funding

*Chronically homeless people housed, or on track for housing, through
the Hub since January 2016:* 17

*People connected with permanent case management:* 62

*Funding for drop-in centers, *January through June 16*:* 25%

*Case management slots in Berkeley tied to permanent housing:* 195 (see
page 6
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/2016-01-26-Item-21-Berkeley-2015-Homeless.pdf>
for details)

*Shelter beds in Berkeley (no time limit) available through The Hub:* 135

*Transitional housing beds available (18-24 months):* 77

Shelter beds and transitional housing in Berkeley available through The
Hub through June 2016. Source: City of Berkeley
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/2016-01-26-Item-21-Berkeley-2015-Homeless.pdf>

Shelter beds and transitional housing in Berkeley available through The
Hub through June 2016. Source: City of Berkeley

Berkeley offers a wide range of services to help aid people with limited
resources. Source: COB
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/2016-01-26-Item-21-Berkeley-2015-Homeless.pdf>

Berkeley offers a wide range of services to help aid people with limited
resources. Source: COB
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/2016-01-26-Item-21-Berkeley-2015-Homeless.pdf>

*What kind of federal HUD money does Berkeley get?* $6 million, of the
$29 million designated to Alameda County

*Proposed 2016-17 allocation from the city for The Hub:* $853,600

*Amount added to that Tuesday night by the Berkeley City Council to
increase support services at The Hub:* $360,000

*Funding approved Tuesday night by council for a year-round youth
shelter run by YEAH!:* $200,000

*Funding for a storage locker program to help those on the
streets:* $185,000 to fund the program going forward, along with a
$50,000 one-time allocation to launch it

*Number of official city outreach workers devoted to the homeless:* 1

*Number slated to be hired in the next year:* 5

*Number of mental health staff who do outreach throughout the city:* 30

*How far does a shelter plus care housing voucher typically get you?* $1,300

*How much might the typical unit cost in Berkeley?* $1,800

Eve Ahmed (center) describes the city’s approach to homeless outreach.
Photo: Emilie Raguso

Eve Ahmed (center) describes the city’s approach to homeless outreach.
Photo: Emilie Raguso

*WHAT SERVICES ARE AVAILABLE?*

*Are there drop-in centers in Berkeley?* Daytime respite and meals are
offered during the week in Berkeley at the Berkeley Drop-In Center,
Bonita House, the BOSS Multi-Agency Service Center, the Suitcase Clinic,
the Women’s Daytime Drop-In Center and Youth Spirit Artworks.

*What other agencies provide services in Berkeley? *Bay Area Community
Services, Berkeley Food & Housing Project, BOSS, City of Berkeley Mental
Health, City of Berkeley Aging Division, Dorothy Day House, East Bay
AIDS Center, Fred Finch, Homeless Action Center, Lifelong Medical Care,
New Bridge Foundation, Options Recovery Services, YEAH! and Rubicon
Programs.

*How about affordable housing agencies? *East Bay organizations focused
on affordable housing include Resources for Community Development,
Satellite Affordable Housing Associates (SAHA) and East Bay Housing
Organizations.

*Where can the homeless go during cold or wet weather?* The Berkeley
Emergency Storm Shelter (BESS) opens at 2345 Channing Way (off Dana
Street) during cold and wet weather. Decisions about whether to open are
made on a daily basis. The shelter could open as early as 7 p.m. and as
late as 11 p.m. Advises the city, “To find out if BESS will be open,
contact JC Orton at 510-684-1892 after 12 p.m. The BESS is a first-come,
first-served emergency shelter that is open on rainy and cold (less than
40 degrees) nights.”

*How about alcohol and drug treatment? *Options Recovery Services and
the Lifelong Acupuncture Clinic offer assistance with addiction.

*Does Berkeley have shower programs? *There are two shower programs in
Berkeley, at Willard Pool and in the BOSS Multi-Agency Service Center.

*How do I find out about shelter in Berkeley?  *The Hub is the many
entry point for information about shelter beds and housing for the
homeless. Walk-ins and phone calls are welcome weekdays from 9 a.m. to
noon and 1-4 p.m. The Hub is located at 1901 Fairview St. (at Adeline
Street). It can be reached by phone at 866-­960-­2132. Those looking for
emergency one-night shelter can call the number above weekdays from 7-8
p.m. Weekends, call from 2-3 p.m. or from 7-8 p.m. for a two-night
emergency bed. (There are no walk-in hours on the weekends.) Learn more
on Berkeleyside <http://www.berkeleyside.com/?p=226541&preview=true>.

*Are there free meals in Berkeley?* There are a number of free meals
available around the city. Berkeleyside created the map below. Click on
the markers for more information. Yellow markers show morning meals,
blue markers show mid-day meals and red markers show late afternoon and
weekend meals. Said a homeless man on Shattuck Avenue who identified
himself as Buddy: “You’re not gonna starve if you’re gonna be homeless
here.… There are all kinds of helpful people here. Berkeley is a town
that has a lot of safety nets.”

/Detailed information about services, including hours, location and
focus, can be found on the city website. The last in-depth report
describing funding for homeless services came out in April 2015. The
actual allocations may have changed but this nearly 200-page report
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/2015-04-28-Item-32-Allocations-of-FY2016-2017-Funds.pdf>
contains quite a bit of information about the overall funding and
structural landscape prior to The Hub./

*FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS ABOUT HOMELESSNESS IN BERKELEY*

We asked some of the people we interviewed about other questions that
came up from the community. Answers provide a perspective and don’t seek
to be exhaustive. If you’re not satisfied, we trust you’ll let us know.
We’ll continue reporting on these issues in future coverage.

*What’s happening with the Berkeley Way project to build 94 units of
supportive housing
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2013/09/11/berkeley-considers-visionary-homeless-housing-project/>
downtown? *Sharon Hawkins Leyden, director of client services at The
Hub, said the Berkeley Food & Housing Project has just gotten site
control to allow it to begin to pursue possible funding streams that
will help make the project a reality. Kristen Lee, manager of Housing &
Community Services for the city, said an update on the project will
likely appear before council in the fall. “We are all waiting on pins
and needles” to find out what happens with a $580 million countywide
housing bond
<http://www.eastbaytimes.com/breaking-news/ci_30067749/alameda-county-affordable-housing-bond-measure-put-november>,
she said, set to come to voters in November. That could help bridge the
$22 million gap the city needs to build the project.

*Is the county doing anything else? *Later this year, Alameda County’s
EveryOne Home <http://everyonehome.org/> organization is looking at
creating a network of seven hubs
<http://everyonehome.org/our-work/coordinated-entry-system/> to help
tackle the problem of homelessness. It would be no surprise if Berkeley
is one of those hubs, experts say. It would have to apply like everyone
else, however.

*How is the city trying to raise more money to tackle homelessness?* For
one, the Berkeley City Council recently placed a proposed increase on
business license taxes on the November ballot, which could send $5
million a year into the General Fund. Council did that with the
intention of using some of the money for housing, said Councilman Jesse
Arreguín.

BOSS is located inside this door into the Veterans Memorial building.
Photo: Emilie Raguso

BOSS is located inside this door into the Veterans Memorial building.
Photo: Emilie Raguso

*Are there enough supportive housing services to go around? *Said
housing director Lee: “What we have, over the first five months of the
year, is more than 3,000 people trying to access services at The Hub
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/berkeley-seeks-to-house-those-most-in-need-at-the-hub/> and
what we really have resources for is to serve 100 people.” According to
the January 2015 EveryOne Home count, there are more than 200 people in
this “high needs” category who live on Berkeley’s streets.

*Are there typically open shelter beds in Berkeley? *Said Leyden:
“Everything’s full.” Before The Hub opened in January, 40% of those beds
were being used by people not defined as “literally homeless.” Now,
people must prove they are homeless to have access to the resource. The
beds are still full.

*Where are the homeless from? *According to Leyden, most of the people
on Berkeley streets are local. “They’re not moving here from LA. It’s
not like there’s an influx of people from outside; we’re not seeing that
at all. Most people have been here for a really long time: 10, 15, 20
years.” She described housing one person recently who had been on the
streets locally for 33 years.

She continued: “We’re not having people flock here from everywhere,”
Leyden ran the youth shelter at YEAH! for 20 years, and said that’s been
true of all her time in Berkeley. “I think that’s the myth. That’s what
everybody would like to say: ‘They’re not from here. They’re not our
problem. They should go back to where they came from.’ That’s very
disappointing.”

Many of the people the city has been working with through The Hub have
been in the area for years and are well-known to area service providers,
she said.

Lee said people are drawn to Berkeley because it’s a place where they
feel safe: “They’re not being harassed as much as they are in other
parts of the region.” She continued, “We have a pretty wide array of
services that support people with multiple needs.” There’s alcohol and
drug treatment, benefits advocacy, and help getting Social Security.
Many of those services aren’t offered in other parts of the county. “We
just have a huge array of services here in Berkeley.”

Added city spokesman Matthai Chakko: “We just have to implement the
policies that are set by council. That’s really a community conversation.”

*How do you prove you’re experiencing homeless when you’re trying to get
help? *There’s often a paper trail, Leyden said. That could be from
Berkeley’s prior intake system, HMIS, or it could be from other contacts
with hospitals, police, psychiatric facilities or Berkeley Mental
Health. “A lot of people that we’re trying to help are very well known.
People have known they’ve been around for a really long time,” she said.

Council voted Tuesday night to fund a year-round young adult shelter at
YEAH!, located behind a church at University Avenue and McGee. Photo:
Emilie Raguso

Council voted Tuesday night to fund a year-round young adult shelter at
YEAH!, located behind a church at University Avenue and McGee. Photo:
Emilie Raguso

*How does homelessness happen? *It’s not that Berkeley has become more
of a magnet for homeless individuals from other places, Leyden said.
It’s primarily that more people in this community have become vulnerable
to losing their homes, or fallen victim to bouts of homelessness. More
people are living on the edge of poverty, paycheck to paycheck, where a
car breakdown can lead to a lost job, which can mean losing one’s home.

In the recent EveryOne Home count, domestic violence appeared to be a
growing problem. Several homeless individuals interviewed by
Berkeleyside said factors such as DV, eviction and the break-up of
relationships put them on the streets. Others said they subscribed to a
“traveler” lifestyle and could not handle sleeping indoors.

“I embrace the bohemian right for people to pick up a sleeping bag,”
said an older homelesss woman with a tidy upright cart packed neatly
with possessions who was sitting alone on a bench on Shattuck Avenue.
“Traveler people, folk music. It’s a California thing.”

*How do the Berkeley Police deal with homelessness? Why isn’t there more
enforcement of existing laws and ordinances? *Sgt. Andrew Frankel, BPD
spokesman, shared the following response.

We as a department are sensitive to our homeless community members. When
our Officers are dispatched to calls for service involving the homeless,
they assess each call based on the facts.  Often times they are
dispatched to situations where the presence of people on the street does
not constitute a crime. When appropriate, persons are contacted and then
the determination is made if enforcement efforts are appropriate.

Often times what might be seen as nuisance behavior could be someone
with a mental health issue, which is neither illegal, nor addressable in
terms of making an arrest.

Homelessness presents a complex set of issues for the City. The Berkeley
Police Department does its best to ensure public safety while showing
sensitivity with the issues around mental health, drug abuse, and folks
living on the street.

*What can the general public do to truly help those on the streets? *One
thing that came through loud and clear in the responses to homelessness
shared in our questionnaire
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/21/share-your-questions-about-homelessness-in-berkeley/>: Many
readers feel helpless but want to make a difference.* *Leyden at The Hub
shared the following ideas.

  * Volunteer in the community at places like feeding programs and shelters.
  * Give money to organizations to held tackle housing-related problems.
  * Advocate: Talk to city officials, get on planning teams, join the
    Homeless Task Force.
  * Call politicians: Tell them you can’t tolerate that people in your
    city are sleeping outside.
  * What about giving money to panhandlers? “You follow your heart and
    your values.”

Said Buddy, the homeless man from Shattuck Avenue, “These people [in
Berkeley] are not like other people. They seem to be used to it. They
are indifferent to us. We go about our business looking for our crumbs
of bread and we’re ignored.” He didn’t altogether think that was a bad
thing, and said he often kept his distance from other people, both the
homeless and the housed. But he admitted it would be nice to be
acknowledged sometimes. “Nobody wants to talk to me. Treat me like a
human being.”


      Relevant reports

Want to read up on homelessness in Berkeley? We used these reports in
our coverage this week, including much of the data that appears above.
Have additional useful resources to share? Please post them in the comments.

  * Council report on the 2015 EveryOne Home count
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/2016-01-26-Item-21-Berkeley-2015-Homeless.pdf>(January
    2016)
  * Focus Strategies report on Berkeley’s homeless services
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Berkeley-Final-CAS-Report-Submitted-090514.pdf>
    (September 2014)
  * Alameda County homeless count reports
    <http://everyonehome.org/everyone-counts/> (Historic data)

*Related:*
Gilman Street underpass: For many, the poster child of Berkeley homeless
camps
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/gilman-street-underpass-for-many-the-poster-child-of-berkeley-homeless-camps/> (06.29.16)
Would a homeless mayor in Berkeley make a difference for the homeless?
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/would-a-homeless-mayor-in-berkeley-make-a-difference-for-the-homeless/> (06.29.16)
Berkeley mayoral hopefuls weigh in on homelessness
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/berkeley-mayoral-hopefuls-weigh-in-on-homelessness/> (06.29.16)*
*Photos: Living on the streets of Berkeley
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/photos-living-on-the-streets-of-berkeley/> (06.29.16)
Berkeley seeks to house those most in need at The Hub
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/berkeley-seeks-to-house-those-most-in-need-at-the-hub/> (06.29.16)
Berkeley homelessness: A timeline from 1982 to 2016
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/berkeley-homelessness-a-timeline-from-1982-to-2016/> (06.29.16)
Homelessness in Berkeley: An overview
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/homelessness-in-berkeley-an-overview/> (06.29.16)
Berkeleyside will focus on homelessness Wednesday
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/28/berkeleyside-along-with-70-media-outlets-will-focus-on-homelessness-wednesday/> (06.28.19)
Share your questions about homelessness in Berkeley
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/21/share-your-questions-about-homelessness-in-berkeley/> (06.21.16)

/SF Homeless Project logoBerkeleyside will publish stories on
homelessness throughout the day Wednesday
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/28/berkeleyside-along-with-70-media-outlets-will-focus-on-homelessness-wednesday/>.
Check back for continuing coverage. Want to share your thoughts on
homelessness to help shape future coverage? Weigh in here
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/21/share-your-questions-about-homelessness-in-berkeley/>./

*See full coverage on Berkeleyside of the Berkeley Homeless Project
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-homeless-project/>. Read more
about homelessness in Berkeley
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-homelessness/>. This story is
part of the Bay Area-wide initiative to document homeless issues. This
endeavor, The San Francisco Homeless Project
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/>, includes 70 media organizations.
Connect with the project on Facebook
<http://facebook.com/sfhomelessproject> and Twitter
<http://twitter.com/bayareahomeless>.*

27 Comments
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/homelessness-in-berkeley-the-fact-sheet/#disqus_thread>

Email
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/homelessness-in-berkeley-the-fact-sheet/email/> Email
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/homelessness-in-berkeley-the-fact-sheet/email/>

Print Friendly <#>
Tagged Berkeley Homeless Project
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-homeless-project/>, Berkeley
homelessness <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-homelessness/>,
SF Homeless Project
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/sf-homeless-project/>, SFHP
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/sfhp/>

« Berkeley mayoral hopefuls weigh in on homelessness
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/berkeley-mayoral-hopefuls-weigh-in-on-homelessness/>
Dueling noodles: Shiba Ramen and Itani Ramen »
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/dueling-noodles-shiba-ramen-and-itani-ramen/>
Please keep our community civil. Comments should remain on topic and be
respectful.
Read our full comments policy »
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/comments-policy/>

  *

     
  *

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
  *
     

  *


          Categories

    Categories

  *


          Tags

    Alameda County district attorney's office
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/alameda-county-district-attorneys-office/>
    Berkeley business news
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-business-news/> Berkeley
    City Council
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-city-council/> Berkeley
    crime <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-crime/> Berkeley
    dining <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-dining/> Berkeley
    elections <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-elections/>
    Berkeley Fire Department
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-fire-department/> Berkeley
    High School <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-high-school/>
    Berkeley music <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-music/>
    Berkeley Police <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-police/>
    Berkeley politics
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-politics/> Berkeley real
    estate <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-real-estate/>
    Berkeley robberies
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-robberies/> Berkeley
    schools <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-schools/> Berkeley
    Unified School District
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-unified-school-district/>
    Berkeley urban planning
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-urban-planning/> Berkeley
    Wire <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-wire/> Best of
    Berkeleyside <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/best-of-berkeleyside/>
    Big Screen Berkeley
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/big-screen-berkeley/> Bites: What’s
    new in East Bay food
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/bites-whats-new-in-east-bay-food/>
    Books <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/books/> Downtown Berkeley
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/downtown-berkeley/> Guns in
    Berkeley <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/guns-in-berkeley/>
    Homicide in Berkeley
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-homicide/> Housing in
    Berkeley <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/housing-in-berkeley/>
    Jennifer Coats <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/jennifer-coats/>
    Jesse Arreguin <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/jesse-arreguin/>
    Mayor Tom Bates <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/mayor-tom-bates/>
    Movies <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/movies/> North Berkeley
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/north-berkeley/> Nosh Wire
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/nosh-wire/> Oakland dining
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/oakland-dining/> Public safety
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/public-safety/> Recent crime in
    Berkeley <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/recent-crime-in-berkeley/>
    Shattuck Avenue <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/shattuck-avenue/>
    Shootings in Berkeley
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/shootings-in-berkeley/> Shop Talk
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/shop-talk/> South Berkeley
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/south-berkeley/> Telegraph Avenue
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/telegraph-avenue/> Theater in
    Berkeley <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/theater-in-berkeley/> UC
    Berkeley <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/uc-berkeley/> University
    of California Police Department
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/university-of-california-police-department/>
    West Berkeley <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/west-berkeley/> What
    to do in Berkeley this weekend
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/what-to-do-in-berkeley-this-weekend/>
    Where in Berkeley? <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/where-in-berkeley/>

  *


          Archives

    June 2016 M 	T 	W 	T 	F 	S 	S
    « May <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/05/> 	  	Jul »
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/07/>
     	1 <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/01/>	2
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/02/>	3
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/03/>	4	5
    6 <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/06/>	7
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/07/>	8
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/08/>	9
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/09/>	10
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/10/>	11	12
    13 <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/13/>	14
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/14/>	15
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/15/>	16
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/16/>	17
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/17/>	18	19
    20 <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/20/>	21
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/21/>	22
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/22/>	23
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/23/>	24
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/24/>	25
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/25/>	26
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/26/>
    27 <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/27/>	28
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/28/>	29
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/>	30
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/30/> 	 

  *


          Site info

      o Log in <https://www.berkeleyside.com/wp-login.php>
      o Entries RSS <http://www.berkeleyside.com/feed/>
      o Comments RSS <http://www.berkeleyside.com/comments/feed/>
      o WordPress.org <https://wordpress.org/>

© 2016 *Berkeleyside* All Rights Reserved. | Design by Doug Ng
<http://design-ng.com/>

<http://invest.berkeleyside.com/>
Search ResultsClose
Custom Search

Web
 
 
 
	

	
