  * San Francisco

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>
      o Radio.com

        <http://radio.com/>
      o CBS Local Sports

        <http://sports.cbslocal.com/>
      o CBS Sports Radio

        <http://radio.cbssports.com/>
      o Tailgate Fan

        <http://tailgatefan.cbslocal.com/>
      o Atlanta

        <http://atlanta.cbslocal.com/>
      o Baltimore

        <http://baltimore.cbslocal.com/>
      o Boston

        <http://boston.cbslocal.com/>
      o Chicago

        <http://chicago.cbslocal.com/>
      o Cleveland

        <http://cleveland.cbslocal.com/>
      o Connecticut

        <http://connecticut.cbslocal.com/>
      o Dallas

        <http://dallas.cbslocal.com/>
      o Denver

        <http://denver.cbslocal.com/>
      o Detroit

        <http://detroit.cbslocal.com/>
      o Houston

        <http://houston.cbslocal.com/>
      o Las Vegas

        <http://lasvegas.cbslocal.com/>
      o Los Angeles

        <http://losangeles.cbslocal.com/>
      o Miami

        <http://miami.cbslocal.com/>
      o Minnesota

        <http://minnesota.cbslocal.com/>
      o New York

        <http://newyork.cbslocal.com/>
      o Philadelphia

        <http://philadelphia.cbslocal.com/>
      o Pittsburgh

        <http://pittsburgh.cbslocal.com/>
      o Sacramento

        <http://sacramento.cbslocal.com/>
      o Seattle

        <http://seattle.cbslocal.com/>
      o St Louis

        <http://stlouis.cbslocal.com/>
      o Tampa

        <http://tampa.cbslocal.com/>
      o Washington

        <http://washington.cbslocal.com/>
  * SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTERS

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/newsletter/signup/>

*CBS Local Rewards

*8

<javascript:sessionm.openPortal();>
Log InRegister

*Sponsored By

*
CBS San Francisco

<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>
*55*°/f/

<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/weather>
5KPIX[1]
*KPIX 5 | CBS San Francisco*/Connect With Us At KPIX 5 PROGRAM GUIDE:
KPIX 5 TV Schedule WATCH: A Glimpse Inside The Working KPIX 5 Newsroom
Breaking News Send news tips, video & photos, and video to the KPIX 5 [...]/

<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/station/cbs-5/>
KCBS[1]
*CONNECT WITH KCBS*/Welcome to KCBS All News 740AM & 106.9FM on
http://www.cbsSF.com!   LISTEN LIVE RIGHT NOW: KCBS Live Audio Stream  
  LIKE KCBS Radio On Facebook: KCBS is the Bay Area’s only all news
station, [...]/

<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/station/kcbs/>
Facebook

<http://www.facebook.com/CBSSanFrancisco>Twitter

<http://twitter.com/#!/cbssf>YouTube

<https://www.youtube.com/user/CBSSanFrancisco>TuneIn

<http://tunein.com/radio/KCBS-All-News-740-AM--1069-FM-s67148/>Instagram

<https://www.instagram.com/kpixtv/>

  * Home

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>	
  * News

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/>	


            All News

    *News

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/>
    *Local

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/local/>
    *Consumer

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/consumer/>
    *Tech

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/tech/>
    *Business

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/business/>
    *LGBT

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/lgbt/>
    *Environment

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/environment/>
    *Politics

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/politics/>
    *Entertainment

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/entertainment/>
    *Education

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/education/>
    *Autos

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/autos>
    *HealthWatch

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/health/>	


            Latest Headlines

    *California Drought Conservation Measures Could Be Permanent

    */California water agencies have drawn up plans to keep drought
    conservation measures in place permanently./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/12/01/california-drought-conservation-measures-could-be-permanent/>
    *Obama Administration Supports Women Registering For Military Draft

    */The Obama administration is announcing its support for requiring
    women to register for the military draft./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/12/01/women-military-draft-selective-service-obama-administration/>



            Photos <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/photo-galleries/>

    *Notable Deaths 2016

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/photo-galleries/2016/11/24/notable-deaths-2016/>



            KPIX5 Live
            <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/show/live-video-kpix-5-cbs-sf-bay-area-san-francisco-watch-news/>

    *Watch KPIX 5 News Live*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/show/live-video-kpix-5-cbs-sf-bay-area-san-francisco-watch-news/>


  * Traffic

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/traffic-map-2/>	
  * Weather

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/weather/>	


            San Francisco, CA

    56 59 45 57% 0% 14 mph
    595957535251
    FULL FORECAST

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/weather/>


            Weather Links

    *Interactive Radar

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/weather/#section-weather-map-3>
    *Weather Maps

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/cbs5-central-bay/>
    *Share Your Photos

    *

    <http://photos.sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/gallery/10274>
    *Weather App

    *

    <http://apps.cbslocal.com/weather/san-francisco/>	


            Weather Videos

    *Weather Videos*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/video/category/news-weather/>	

  * Sports

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/>	


            All Sports

    *Latest

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/>
    *49ers

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/category/49ers/>
    *A's

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/as/>
    *Stanford

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/stanford/>
    *Earthquakes

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/sj-earthquakes/>
    *Giants

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/sf-giants/>
    *Raiders

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/category/raiders/>
    *Sharks

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/sharks/>
    *Warriors

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/warriors/>
    *Scores

    *

    <http://scoresandstats.sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>
    *ODDS

    *

    <http://scoresandstats.sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/news/odds-picks.aspx>	


            Golden State Warriors
            <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/warriors/>

    *Ethics Commission Chastises Politicians Over Free Warriors Tickets

    */Some of the luckiest Golden State Warriors fans in the Bay Area
    are East Bay politicians./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/12/01/ethics-commission-chastises-politicians-over-free-warriors-tickets/>
    *Durant Recalls First Meeting With Steph Curry

    */During this age of elite young sports, it probably shouldn't be
    too much of a surprise that Golden State Warriors superstars Steph
    Curry and Kevin Durant met while still in elementary school./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/30/durant-recalls-first-meeting-with-steph-curry/>



            Oakland Raiders
            <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/raiders/>

    *Raiders Pass Rusher Khalil Mack Steps Up Production

    */With the game on the line, the Carolina Panthers sent three
    blockers in Khalil Mack's direction to no avail./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/12/01/raiders-pass-rusher-khalil-mack-steps-up-production/>
    *Raiders Team Headlines: Can Oakland Win The AFC West?

    */Not only do the Raiders finish with three-of-four games on the
    road, but all three of those contests are against AFC West rivals./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/12/01/raiders-team-headlines-can-oakland-win-the-afc-west/>


  * E.S.P.

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/eat-see-play/>	


            Eat <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/eat-see-play/eat>

    *Win a $75 Gift Certificate From HoneyBaked Hams!

    */Register here for your chance to win a $75 gift certificate from
    HoneyBaked Hams!/

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/kpix-5-contests-3/>
    *Best 24 Hour Diners In San Francisco

    */Hunger pangs hit when you're out at all hours. However, it's not
    as easy as it used to be to find a family-run San Francisco greasy
    spoon that's open all night./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/22/best-24-hour-diners-in-san-francisco/>



            See <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/eat-see-play/see>

    *Victoria's Secret Rocks Paris With $3 Million Bra & Lady Gaga

    */Get a preview of the laciest, if not raciest, catwalk event of the
    year — aka, the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show…/

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/12/01/victorias-secret-rocks-paris-with-3-million-bra-lady-gaga/>
    *Peter Murphy Adds Several Bay Area Tour Dates

    */Murphy will continue his "Stripped" theme, touring as a trio with
    guitarist John Andrews and bassist/electric-violinist Emilio “Zef”
    China./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/29/peter-murphy-adds-several-bay-area-tour-dates/>



            Play
            <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/eat-see-play/play>

    *Remember Pokémon GO? Now There Are 100 New Creatures To Catch

    */Just when Pokémon GO die-hards thought they had caught them all,
    the makers of the app have added 100 new creatures and a bunch of
    new features./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/29/remember-pokemon-go-now-there-are-100-new-creatures-to-catch/>
    *Best Family-Friendly Holiday Events In San Francisco

    */Holiday 2016 is almost here, and San Francisco proves again it is
    the city that does it right with family friendly holiday activities
    and events to fit every budget, from free to splurge./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/29/best-family-family-friendly-holiday-events-in-san-francisco/>


  * Video

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/video/category/spoken-word-kpixtv/>	
    *KPIX 5 Livestream*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/show/live-video-kpix-5-cbs-sf-bay-area-san-francisco-watch-news/>
    *News Videos*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/video/category/spoken-word-kpixtv/>
    *Politics Videos*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/video/category/news-politics/>
    *Sports Videos*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/video/category/sports/>
    *Weather Videos*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/video/category/news-weather/>
    *KCBS-AM*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/video/category/spoken-word-kcbsam/>	

  * Audio

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/audio/>	


            Featured Podcasts

    *Phil Matier*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/audio/phil-matier/>
    *KCBS In Depth*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/audio/kcbs-in-depth/>
    *KCBS Newsroom*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/audio/kcbs-newsroom/>
    *Tech Reports by Larry Magid*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/audio/tech-reports-by-larry-magid/>
    *Narsai David’s Food News*

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/audio/narsai-davids-food-news/>	


            More Podcasts

    *Foodie Chap

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/audio/foodie-chap/>
    *KCBS Sports Fans

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/audio/kcbs-sports-fans/>
    *Movie Reviews With Jan Wahl

    *

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/audio/movie-reviews-with-jan-wahl/>	

  * Contests

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/contest-promotions/>	
  * More	


            Travel

    *Tips For Staying Healthy During Your Holidays Travel

    */Five helpful tips on helping you stay healthy during your holiday
    travels.../

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/30/tips-for-staying-healthy-during-your-holidays-travel/>
    *Marin Headlands Tunnel To Close For 4-Month Renovation

    */The tunnel will be closed to all users for 24 hours, seven days a
    week through early May./

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/26/baker-barry-tunnel-marin-headlands-close-renovation/>
    *5 Best European Ski Resorts

    */Start planning your next ski vacation to one of the top European
    ski resorts.../

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/23/5-best-european-ski-resorts/>
    *Thanksgiving 2016 Visitor's Guide To Bay Area

    */Four great things to do in San Francisco over the Thanksgiving
    holiday weekend.../

    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/top-lists/thanksgiving-visitors-guide-to-bay-area/>



            More

    *Events

    *

    <http://events.sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>	


  San Francisco Homeless Families Struggle To Get Short-Term Housing

/June 29, 2016 10:58 PM/
*Filed Under:* Families
<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/tag/families/>, Homeless
<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/tag/homeless/>, San Francisco
<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/tag/san-francisco/>, San Francisco
Homeless Project
<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/tag/san-francisco-homeless-project/>,
Short-Term Housing
<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/tag/short-term-housing/>, Struggle
<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/tag/struggle/>

Homeless sleep at St. Boniface in San Francisco (CBS)
/Homeless sleep at St. Boniface in San Francisco (CBS)

/

<#>

<#>

<#>
<#comments>

SAN FRANCISCO (CBS SF) — An aspect of San Francisco’s homeless crisis
came into view during an open house at a homeless advocacy group’s
office Wednesday.

The open house at Compass Family Services at 995 Market St. highlighted
some success stories and the problems that need to be solved.

An estimated 2,300 families, consisting of more than 3,200 children, are
homeless in San Francisco.

ADVERTISING
inRead invented by Teads <http://inread-experience.teads.tv/>

“The need is so great,” Compass Family Services Program Director for the
Drop-In Center Kristin Keller said.

One of the biggest problems to housing families is that it’s taking six
to 12 months for a family to get into a three- to six-month shelter, the
first step on the road to permanent housing.

Families also don’t know what services are available or what their
rights are, Keller said.

Making matters worse, sometimes families are even turned away from
emergency shelters where they sleep on mattresses on the floor of a
church for a night.

Keller did not say where the families go if they cannot get into an
emergency shelter.

The housing crisis, where more families are being evicted and rent is
going up, and a multi-generational cycle of poverty are among the
reasons for homelessness, Compass Family Services spokesman Stacy Webb said.

Last year, the organization served 5,897 parents and children. A
majority of the families are single mothers with one or more children.
The organization expects to serve more than 6,000 parents and children
this year.

Keller said there is no pressure on politicians to do more for homeless
families because parents will stay anywhere and aren’t seen on the
streets as single men and women are.

So services for families lack funding, Keller said. Despite the lack of
money, the program at Compass Family Services has achieved some success.

Kazakhstani immigrants Olga Aznabakiyyeva, her husband Aziz Aznabakiyyev
and their children Amina, 5 and Saniya, 4 are now looking for a home to
buy after getting help.

The family started by getting acquainted with the organization’s day
care center while they lived in a hostel. In two months, they obtained a
two-bedroom apartment in the Bayview and now Olga has earned three
coding certificates. She’s ready to start work as a programmer, she said.

She and her husband want one day to be donors to Compass Family
Services, she said.

Regina Bates was homeless for three years. Now she’s working again and
has a one-bedroom apartment for herself and her two daughters Asha, 11,
and Abria, 7.

The three stayed in two shelters before getting an apartment in Vallejo.
Bates ended up homeless after giving notice to her landlord and then was
unexpectedly laid off from work.

Her plan now is to open her own business to help the homeless.

Comments <#comments>
SPONSORED CONTENT
Candidates Address AIPAC
CBS2’s Dick Brennan reports.
/Promoted by /*Connatix*


        Leave a Reply Cancel reply
        <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/06/29/homeless-families-struggle-to-get-short-term-housing/#respond>

Enter your comment here...

Please log in using one of these methods to post your comment:

  *

    <#comment-form-load-service:Twitter>
  *

    <#comment-form-load-service:Facebook>
*

Gravatar <https://gravatar.com/site/signup/>	
Email (required) (Address never made public)

Name (required)

Website

Twitter picture

** You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out
<javascript:HighlanderComments.doExternalLogout(%20'twitter'%20);> / Change
<#> )

Facebook photo

** You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out
<javascript:HighlanderComments.doExternalLogout(%20'facebook'%20);> / Change
<#> )

Google+ photo

** You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out
<javascript:HighlanderComments.doExternalLogout(%20'googleplus'%20);> / Change
<#> )

Cancel <javascript:HighlanderComments.cancelExternalWindow();>

Connecting to %s

Notify me of new comments via email.

Notify me of new posts via email.

<#listen-live>

Listen Live

<#listen-live>
Follow Us On
Facebook <http://www.facebook.com/CBSSanFrancisco>Twitter
<http://twitter.com/#!/cbssf>YouTube
<https://www.youtube.com/user/CBSSanFrancisco>TuneIn
<http://tunein.com/radio/KCBS-All-News-740-AM--1069-FM-s67148/>Instagram
<https://www.instagram.com/kpixtv/>
Sign Up for Newsletters
<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/newsletter/signup/>
MORE NEWS

  *
    image
    Man Shot By Driver In San Francisco After Bay Bridge Collision
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/12/01/man-shot-by-driver-in-san-francisco-after-bay-bridge-collision/?e=i9fpjMmbEwH6aw>
  *
    image
    BART Investigated Over Ad Featuring Draymond Green
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/30/bart-investigated-over-ad-featuring-draymond-green/?e=i9fpjMmbEwKsDg>
  *
    image
    1.7 Million Pound Bay Bridge Truss Being Removed, Recycled
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/11/29/1-7-million-pound-bay-bridge-truss-being-removed-recycled/?e=i9fpjMmbEwDZNQ>

Powered by CBS

[http://eventful.com/apps/generic/cbs1x1.gif?rand=4326979443739&label=rectest2&disposition=show&testgroup=a&widgettype=more-news]



        More From CBS San Francisco

*Get The New CBS SF Bay Area Local App

*

<http://apps.cbslocal.com/>
*Got Our Weather App?

*

<http://apps.cbslocal.com/weather/san-francisco/>

CBS San Francisco

<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>	
Follow Us Facebook

<http://www.facebook.com/CBSSanFrancisco>Twitter

<http://twitter.com/#!/cbssf>YouTube

<https://www.youtube.com/user/CBSSanFrancisco>TuneIn

<http://tunein.com/radio/KCBS-All-News-740-AM--1069-FM-s67148/>Instagram

<https://www.instagram.com/kpixtv/>	

News

  * Business <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/business/>
  * Local <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/local/>
  * Politics <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/politics/>
  * HealthWatch <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/health/>
  * Tech <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/tech/>
  * Entertainment
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/news/entertainment/>

Watch + Listen

  * Heard On
    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/kcbs-all-news-740-am-1069-fm>
  * Seen On
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/watch-listen/seen-on/>
  * Audio on Demand
    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/kcbs-all-news-740-am-1069-fm>
  * Music <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/watch-listen/music/>
  * Only CBS <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/only-cbs/>

Sports

  * Raiders <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/raiders/>
  * SF Giants <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/sf-giants/>
  * Sharks <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/sharks/>
  * Warriors <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/sports/warriors/>
  * STATS
    <http://scoresandstats.sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/gamematchups.aspx>

Eat.See.Play

  * Eat <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/eat-see-play/eat/>
  * See <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/eat-see-play/see/>
  * Play <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/category/eat-see-play/play/>

Corporate

  * About Us <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/about-us/>
  * Advertise
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/about-us/advertising-basics/>
  * Business Development
    <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/about-us/business-development/>
  * Contact <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/about-us/contact-us/>
  * Mobile <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/about-us/mobile/>
  * Connect <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/about-us/connect-with-us/>
  * CBS Television Public File
    <http://policies.cbslocal.com/fcc/sanfrancisco.television.html>
  * CBS Radio Public File
    <http://policies.cbslocal.com/fcc/sanfrancisco.radio.html>

CBS San Francisco

<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>
©2016 CBS Local Media, a division of CBS Radio Inc. All rights reserved.
Powered by WordPress.com VIP
<https://vip.wordpress.com/?utm_source=vip_powered_wpcom&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=VIP%20Footer%20Credit>

By viewing our video content, you are accepting the terms of our Video
Services Policy
<http://policies.cbslocal.com/privacy-june-2015/current.html#video-services>

  * Privacy Policy <http://policies.cbslocal.com/privacy/current.html>
  * Terms of Use <http://policies.cbslocal.com/terms-of-use/>
  * Your California Privacy Rights
    <http://policies.cbslocal.com/privacy/current.html#cali-visitors>
  * Mobile User Agreement
    <http://policies.cbslocal.com/mobile-app-agreement/>
  * Ad Choices <http://policies.cbslocal.com/privacy/current.html#onlinead>
  * EEO Reports <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/eeo-reports/>

  *
      o CBS San Francisco

        <http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/>
      o Customize

        <https://cbssanfran.wordpress.com/wp-admin/customize.php?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcbssanfran.wordpress.com%2F2016%2F06%2F29%2Fhomeless-families-struggle-to-get-short-term-housing%2F>
      o Follow

      o Sign Up

        <https://wordpress.com/start/>
      o Log In

        <https://cbssanfran.wordpress.com/wp-login.php?redirect_to=http%3A%2F%2Fsanfrancisco.cbslocal.com%2F2016%2F06%2F29%2Fhomeless-families-struggle-to-get-short-term-housing%2F>
      o Copy shortlink

        <http://cbsloc.al/297aYkt>
      o Manage Subscriptions

        <https://subscribe.wordpress.com/>
      o Collapse this bar


      Listen Live


        AM/FM Stations

  *
    KCBS_740
    *KCBS 740 AM*

    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/kcbs-all-news-740-am-1069-fm>
  *
    LIVE_105
    *Live 105*

    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/live-105>
  *
    KFRC
    *106.9 KFRC*

    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/kfrccom-classic-hits>
  *
    997NOW_JAN2016-300x300
    *Now 99.7*

    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/997-now>
  *
    Alice_97-3
    *Alice 97.3*

    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/alice-973>


        Featured Shows & Multimedia

  *
    Play.it Bar
    *Play.It*

    <http://www1.play.it/audio/>
  *
    balt_live_234x132
    *CBS Sports Radio*

    <http://player.radio.com/listen/station/cbs-sports-radio>
  *
    always-radioCom
    *Radio.com*

    <http://radio.com/>

Advertise On Our Streams

<https://www.audioadcenter.com/>
<javascript:;><javascript:;>

<javascript:void(0)>
Pause
Unmute
Loaded: 0%
Progress: 0%
Remaining Time -1:57
Fullscreen
Play Video

Unmute
Loaded: 0%
Progress: 0%
Remaining Time -0:00
Fullscreen
Play Video
<https://connatix.com/>
:)
