KQED Menu

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Menu

    <#>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs & Blogs

        <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Special Coverage

        <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs <#> Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California


  KQED News <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

Search

<#search-container>


  KQED News Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Search for:

News Fix <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>


  Homelessness: You’ve Got Questions, We’ve Got Answers

A man walks by two homeless people sleeping outside in the San Francisco
Civic Center.

A man walks by two homeless people sleeping outside in San Francisco's
Civic Center. (/David Marks/KQED/)

By Jessica Placzek <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/jplaczek/>
June 28, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/homelessness-youve-got-questions-weve-got-answers/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/homelessness-youve-got-questions-weve-got-answers/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/homelessness-youve-got-questions-weve-got-answers/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/homelessness-youve-got-questions-weve-got-answers/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/homelessness-youve-got-questions-weve-got-answers/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/homelessness-youve-got-questions-weve-got-answers/?share=email&nb=1>
*

/As part of our series //Bay Curious/
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>/, we answer questions from
KQED listeners and readers. For our week of homelessness coverage, we
asked you to submit your questions on homelessness. We received over
1,200 submissions. The following are some of the questions that were
asked more frequently. /

*What are the most common causes of homelessness?*

Homelessness mostly arises from poverty and a lack of affordable
housing. In the Bay Area, the cost of housing is outpacing what people
making minimum wage can afford. When they lose their jobs or their
housing, they are at risk for becoming homeless.

In San Francisco during the 2015 Homeless Count
<http://sfgov.org/lhcb/2015-san-francisco-point-time-homeless-count-0>,
25 percent of the respondents reported job loss as the primary cause for
their homelessness. Loss of housing contributed to another 18 percent of
homelessness (13 percent cited eviction, 3 percent said their landlord
raised their rent and 2 percent reported foreclosure).

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
What do you wonder about the Bay Area, its culture or people that you
want KQED to investigate? Ask Bay Curious.
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>

Other people were forced out of their homes due to interpersonal
tensions: domestic violence (5 percent), arguments with family (12
percent), and breakups and divorce (11 percent). These things alone do
not cause homelessness. It’s a systemic issue involving poverty,
inadequate safety nets, lack of opportunity and an increasingly
expensive housing market.

The second most self-reported cause of homelessness was alcohol or
substance abuse (18 percent).

*Homelessness is a complex issue. Learn more >>
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>*

sfproject3 <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>

It’s important to note that two-thirds of the respondents cited one or
more health conditions. These include physical illness, physical
disabilities, chronic substance abuse and severe mental health
conditions. “We know that having mental health problems increases your
risk of homelessness and that homelessness worsens mental health
problems,” says Dr. Margot Kushel, a professor at UCSF who specializes
in homeless issues.

Source: The San Francisco 2015 Homeless Count
San Francisco 2015 Homeless Count

“The most common mental health problem among people who are homeless is
severe depression, followed by bipolar disease, followed
by schizophrenia. People have this view that everyone has a thought
disorder and that’s just not true,” says Kushel.

Kushel also wants to point out that some of the people you see on the
street acting erratically are actually housed and in treatment programs.
“People who are housed may still be out on the street engaging in
behaviors that might look like they are homeless. … In fact, many of the
people who don’t have housing in this city are invisible to the general
public. You’d never guess that they don’t have a home,” says Kushel.

A homeless man sleeping in a doorway in San Francisco.
A homeless man sleeping in a doorway in San Francisco. (Henry Rubin)

*What do I do if I think someone needs help?*

Most cities have a 311 number. In San Francisco, there are multiple
outreach groups that aid the homeless, such as the San Francisco
Homeless Outreach Team (415-734-4233) or the San Francisco Mobile Crisis
Treatment Team (415-970-4000)

For more information, KQED published a story
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2014/07/help-homeless-san-francisco/>on this
two years ago or you can check out the San Francisco Coalition on
Homelessness’ 10 Things To Do When You See Homeless People
<http://www.cohsf.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/WHAT-TO-DO.pdf>.

Volunteers with a church group serve free meals to people at U.N. Plaza
in San Francisco.
Volunteers with a church group serve free meals to people at U.N. Plaza
in San Francisco. (Sara Bloomberg/KQED)

*Are other cities sending their homeless to San Francisco with one-way
bus tickets?*

Yes, people are being sent here, but San Francisco is putting people on
buses, too. The Homeward Bound <http://www.sfhsa.org/79.htm>program
gives people without homes a bus ticket to reunite with family, friends
and stable living situations. Before leaving San Francisco, city
officials try to confirm that the traveler has a place to stay at the
other end of the ride. Since 2004, over 9,000
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/S-F-spends-record-241-million-on-homeless-6808319.php>people
have gotten bus tickets through the Homeward Bound program.

Cities and counties across the country use similar bus ticket programs.
Yet, while reuniting people with friends and families can be a good
thing, homeless advocates worry that the bus ticket programs are abused
and don’t help people but simply export people and their problems
elsewhere
<http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=5221311>. Some
participants in the program are not even going home but simply to other
areas that might have an open bed. Critics claim that these programs
don’t do enough to ensure that people’s needs will be met at their
destination.

But cities have an economic incentive to keep the program running. San
Francisco’s Homeward Bound program spends an average of $185 per ticket,
whereas housing and caring for people without shelter can cost thousands
of dollars.

That said, there have been examples of bus tickets being used illegally.
A few years ago, a Las Vegas hospital was found to be systematically
putting mentally ill patients on Greyhound buses out of town. It was
estimated that about 500 patients had destinations in California. Last
year, San Francisco won a $400,000 settlement
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/sf-reaches-400k-settlement-proposal-in-nevada-patient-dumping-case/>from
the state of Nevada to cover the medical costs of some 24 patients who
arrived in the city with one-way tickets.

"Thumper" sits for a portrait in the People's Park in Berkeley, Calif.
where he is currently homeless and plays guitar to earn money for food.
‘Thumper’ sits for a portrait in People’s Park in Berkeley, California,
where he is currently homeless and plays guitar to earn money for food.
(Brittany Hosea-Small/KQED)

*Do any of the homeless choose life on the street? *

“When people who are homeless are offered a safe and decent place to
call home, we find they always say yes,” says Jennifer Friedenbach, the
director of San Francisco’s Coalition on Homelessness.

“People often mistake turning down one night in a shelter as choosing to
be homeless. They don’t understand that you have to lose all your
belongings, separate from your pet, separate from your partner and wait
in line for hours on end, only to get five hours of sleep and get kicked
out in the next day without your property and survival gear,” says
Friedenbach.

Other reasons people cite for opting out of shelters include violence,
racism, homophobia and transphobia. There are others who decide to
sleep on the streets because they want to avoid the bureaucracy and
restrictions that come with living in supportive housing. “After going
through the merry-go-round of social services … people might not be
interested in a sheltered treatment-type program for long periods of
time. They want to be more independent and off on their own,” says
 Eduardo Vega, director of the Mental Health Association of San Francisco .

In regard to long-term housing, the director of Hospitality House, told
the San Francisco Chronicle
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/What-San-Franciscans-know-about-homeless-isn-t-7224018.php>that
there’s more to a person’s refusal of housing. “A lot of times people
have been traumatized and re-traumatized and they don’t think [their
lives will change]. They might need a little bit more work in order to
be able to make that leap.”

A couple people sleep in a dormitory at a Navigation Center in San
Francisco. Unlike other centers, couples are allowed to push their beds
together here, and dogs sleep with their people.
A couple people sleep in a dormitory at the Navigation Center in San
Francisco’s Mission District. Unlike other centers, couples are allowed
to push their beds together here, and dogs sleep with their people.
(Deborah Svoboda)

*What happens to all the money that San Francisco spends on the homeless?*

San Francisco has allocated over $241 million on homelessness for the
2015-2016 fiscal year. 

Courtesy of The Chronicle
The San Francisco Chronicle

The city doesn’t have more details on how exactly the money is spent but
Supervisor London Breed has asked for a full report. For more
information, you can read the Chronicle
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/S-F-spends-record-241-million-on-homeless-6808319.php>story.
 

*Why are there so many homeless people in San Francisco, and why are
they so visible?*

“It’s because of the high housing costs. San Francisco has a huge
homeless population because it’s one of the most expensive cities,” says
Kushel, the UCSF professor who specializes in homeless issues. “There is
a myth that homeless people are drawn to San Francisco because it’s such
a great place to be homeless. But research doesn’t hold that up.”

A homeless man waiting in line outside of Glide uses a box for warmth
and tries to get some sleep.
A homeless man waiting for homeless services uses a box for warmth and
tries to get some sleep. (Deborah Svoboda/KQED)

“The draw of a milder climate only has a marginal effect,” says Eduardo
Vega, director of the Mental Health Association of San Francisco.

According to the 2015 San Francisco Homeless Count, of the 7,539 people
counted, 71 percent lived in the city before they lost housing. Only 10
percent came from outside the state and the remaining 19 percent came
from elsewhere in California.

“We do know that across the country, when people become homeless, they
tend to migrate to a city. That’s because it’s hard to experience
homelessness in a suburban area. You might have to walk 4, 10, or
20 miles to the nearest service agency. So, people tend to move to
cities, but there’s nothing about San Francisco in particular,” says Kushel.

According to Vega, the ratio of housed to unhoused people in San
Francisco is unremarkable for a city of its size.

“Because we have a small dense metropolitan area and a lot of people are
crowded into the same 4 square miles downtown, there is a perception
that the problem is somehow much worse in San Francisco,” says Vega.

In the 2015 report
<https://www.hudexchange.info/resources/documents/2015-AHAR-Part-1.pdf> by
U.S. Housing and Urban Development, San Francisco’s homeless population,
in sheer numbers, is smaller than New York, Los Angeles, Seattle, San
Diego, Las Vegas, D.C. and Chicago. 

“The problem is that homelessness is a big problem across the country.
But here people are seeing lots of homelessness and getting sensitized
to it, which is good,” says Vega.

Chase and Monique talk in their tent on Florida St. that is part of a
homeless encampment in the Mission District of San Francisco.
Chase (left) and Monique (right) in their tent on Florida Street that is
part of a homeless encampment in the Mission District. (Brittany
Hosea-Small/KQED)

*Why are there so many more **/young/**homeless people in San
Francisco than other places?*

“More and more, we are seeing Bay Area youth becoming homeless,” says
Mary Howe, director of the Homeless Youth Alliance. The organization
provides a safe space for homeless youth in the Haight neighborhood and
focuses on providing harm reduction services.

Many young people become homeless after aging out of the foster care
system. Some were homeless with their families but left because they
don’t want to be a burden. Some leave abusive, traumatic or neglectful
homes. Others are kicked out after coming out as LGBTQ. In San
Francisco, 48 percent of the young respondents in the homeless count
identified as LGBTQ. 

Mary Howe is the executive director of the Homeless Youth Alliance on
Haight Street in San Francisco. The organization provides a safe space
for homeless youth in the Haight neighborhood and focuses on providing
harm reduction services.
Mary Howe of the Homeless Youth Alliance (Sara Bloomberg/KQED)

Similar to the adults, many of the homeless youth lived here before
becoming homeless. According to the Homeless Youth Count
<http://sfgov.org/lhcb/sites/default/files/Youth_SanFrancisco_HomelessReport_2015_FINAL_2.pdf>,
56 percent of the homeless youth population was living in San Francisco
prior to becoming homeless. Another 25 percent came from another county
in California and 19 percent came from out of state. Many of the
newcomers head to the Haight.

“I do think the Haight in particular is an international destination for
young people. It will always draw people in, as it did in the ’60s.
People still view it as something better than what they are leaving,”
says Howe. “I also want to point out that many of the people paying rent
in San Francisco are actually not from here either.”

*Are there any plans for adopting a “Housing First” program similar to
that in Salt Lake City?*

For the uninitiated: Salt Lake City has nearly eradicated homelessness.
The city accomplished this through an aggressive “Housing First”
program, which quickly puts people into permanent housing. There are no
requirements for eligibility, such as sobriety, treatment or service
participation. Over 2,000 people who were formerly chronically homeless
are housed in what is described as “showpieces of modern architecture.”

So why can’t San Francisco do this? Well, the city actually /does/have a
Housing First program.  According to the San Francisco Chronicle
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/nation/article/Salt-Lake-City-a-model-for-S-F-on-homeless-5587357.php?t=edc865e5e805236f26&cmpid=twitter-premium>,
it includes about 5,000 units of supportive housing in the Tenderloin
neighborhood. But why hasn’t the program seen the same success as Salt
Lake City?

According to Chronicle reporter Kevin Fagan
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/author/kevin-fagan/>, Salt Lake City has
more data on its homeless population, enabling the program to target the
most at-risk people on the street. These are the people who use
emergency services most. By identifying these folks, government and
nonprofit agencies can quickly house and begin supportive services
catered to the individual’s needs.

San Francisco has no single information network that tracks homeless
people and the services they use. This hinders the city’s ability to
help people who need it most.

Fagan says that another reason San Francisco’s program isn’t as
successful is because it’s harder to cultivate a culture of
self-improvement in the Tenderloin.  Residents with substance abuse
issues have a difficult time breaking old habits. Counselors in the
Tenderloin are spread too thin and can have up to 100 clients each. By
comparison, the Salt Lake City program has one counselor for every 15
residents.

“We provide a fair number of [Housing First units], but we need a lot
more,” says Vega, the director of the Mental Health Association of San
Francisco.  

Today, San Francisco still has 1,745 chronically homeless individuals
and 18 chronically homeless families.  To provide more supportive
housing similar to the Salt Lake City model, the main obstacle will be
the cost. Building housing in the country’s most expensive real estate
market costs heaps more than in Utah.

Furthermore, the high prices both cause homelessness and create barriers
to finding a home outside of government support. In Salt Lake City, the
program has a 15 percent turnover each year as people are able to
transition out and support themselves. In San Francisco, less than 5
percent of the residents leave the program each year. They stay longer
because they cannot afford to leave.

A tiny home in Madison, Wisconsin.
A tiny home in Madison, Wisconsin. (Emily Mills/Flickr
<https://flic.kr/p/iZc92M>) (Emily Mills/Flickr)

*H**ow can building tiny houses help homeless people in the Bay Area**?*

Sonoma
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/4996725-181/sonoma-county-identifies-site-for?artslide=0>is
currently working on creating a tiny house community, and similar plans
are being discussed in Richmond
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/05/04/richmond-to-consider-tiny-houses-for-the-homeless>.
Oakland
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/Tiny-homes-often-unwelcome-in-SF-Oakland-7045184.php>
has a few tiny homes scattered throughout the city, but the police treat
them like tents. Some government officials are considering a more
long-term solution with tiny homes, but not much leeway is being made.

Tiny homes cost much less than building traditional housing and can be
placed in empty city lots. They’ve been found to be especially effective
when paired with supportive services. Across the country, cities are
beginning to house people in clusters of tiny homes.

In Eugene, Oregon, the 29 homes in “Opportunity Village” come equipped
with electricity and Wi-Fi, and a central building houses cooking,
showering and laundry facilities. With the help of volunteers, the
initial building costs of Opportunity Village were only $212,000.
Monthly operations cost around $1,800.

However, a tiny house community may not be well suited to San Francisco
or other densely populated Bay Area cities. In this expensive real
estate market, there is a need for multi-unit housing. Tiny homes are
better suited for cities with large unused lots.

“You need to remember, many of the people experiencing severe housing
burdens are families. And they are already living in overcrowded spaces.
What we need to do is build housing that is affordable for multiple
people,” says Kushel, the UCSF professor who specializes in homeless issues.

Division Street homeless encampments
Division Street homeless encampments. (Amy Mostafa/KQED)

 

Explore: Housing <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>, News
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/news/>, homelessness
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/homelessness/>, San Francisco
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/san-francisco/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/homelessness-youve-got-questions-weve-got-answers/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/homelessness-youve-got-questions-weve-got-answers/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/homelessness-youve-got-questions-weve-got-answers/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/homelessness-youve-got-questions-weve-got-answers/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/homelessness-youve-got-questions-weve-got-answers/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/homelessness-youve-got-questions-weve-got-answers/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

3 Comments
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/homelessness-youve-got-questions-weve-got-answers/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related

S.F. Homeless Problem Looks the Same as It Did 20 Years Ago

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/endless-efforts-meager-results>

How Many Are Homeless? A Question With Many Answers

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/how-many-are-homeless-a-question-with-many-answers>

Disability Agency Blasts Sonoma County Jail's Treatment of Mentally Ill

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/05/16/sonoma-county-accused-of-involuntarily-medicating-inmates>

Homelessness in San Francisco's Mission: A Neighborhood View

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/07/12/homelessness-in-san-franciscos-mission-a-neighborhood-view/>

Tent Cities Compete With Super Bowl City for Attention

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/02/02/tent-cities-compete-with-super-bowl-city-for-attention>

Two Deaths In One Jail In One Month: How Are We Treating Mentally Ill
Inmates?

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2014/03/29/two-mentally-ill-inmates-died-one-month-in-santa-clara>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


    Author


      Jessica Placzek

Jessica Placzek grew up on the West Coast, went to college on the
East Coast and figured out what she wanted on the Gulf Coast. She likes
talking to people and learning, so she became a reporter. This is where
she tweets: @jessicazyp <https://twitter.com/jessicazyp>

View all posts by this author <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/jplaczek/>


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>


  Post navigation

Prev Oakland City Council Votes to Block Coal Shipments Through Port

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/oakland-city-council-votes-to-block-coal-shipments-through-port/>
Next Experience Life on the Streets of San Francisco [360 Video]

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/experience-life-on-the-streets-of-san-francisco-360-video/>



  About KQED

  * About <http://www.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://www.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://www.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://www.kqed.org/about/help/index.jsp>


  Follow KQED News

  * Follow Us on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KQEDnews>
  * Follow Us on Twitter <https://twitter.com/kqednews>
  * Connect on Instagram <http://instagram.com/kqednews>
  * Connect on Google+ <https://plus.google.com/117185877001714843452/posts>
  * Connect on YouTube <https://www.youtube.com/user/KQEDnews>

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

[blank image]
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.


  Get the facts!

Close

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil
:)
