  * English

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/>
  * Spanish

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/es/>

El Tecolote

<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/>
//

  * Home

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/>
  * News

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/>
      o Education

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/education/>
      o Immigration

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/immigration-news/>
      o Housing

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/housing-news/>
      o Health

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/health-news/>
  * Arts & Culture

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/>
      o Film and Literary Reviews

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/film-and-literary-reviews/>
      o People in the Arts

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/people-in-the-arts/>
      o Event Coverage

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/event-coverage/>
  * Features

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/features/>
  * Community

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/community-2/>
  * Latin America

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/latin_america/>
  * Commentary

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/>
      o Immigration 101

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/immigration-101/>
      o Veterans’ Voices

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/veterans-voices-commentary/>
      o Letters

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/letters/>
      o Opinion

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/opinion-en/>
  * About

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/about-2/>
      o Archive

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/print-issue-archive/>
      o Volunteer

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/about-2/volunteer/>
      o Acción Latina

        <http://accionlatina.org/>
  * Advertise

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/advertise-2/>
  * Contact

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/contact/>


  Homeless street artist brushes pain away one stroke at a time

// June 29, 2016 // Alexis Terrazas
Share this: Facebook <#> Twitter <#> Google+ <#> Pinterest <#> Email to
a Friend <#>
Javier Antonio Chab Dzul, a 40-year-old Mexican homeless man of Mayan
ancestry, poses for a portrait in front of his tent on 19th Street,
between Shotwell and Folsom streets. Photo Alexis TerrazasJavier Antonio
Chab Dzul, a 40-year-old Mexican homeless man of Mayan ancestry, poses
for a portrait in front of his tent on 19th Street, between Shotwell and
Folsom streets. Photo Alexis Terrazas

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Javier-Dzul_07web.jpg>
Javier Antonio Chab Dzul, a 40-year-old Mexican homeless man of Mayan
ancestry, poses for a portrait near some of his street art on 19th
Street, between Shotwell and Folsom streets. Photo Alexis TerrazasJavier
Antonio Chab Dzul, a 40-year-old Mexican homeless man of Mayan ancestry,
poses for a portrait near some of his street art on 19th Street, between
Shotwell and Folsom streets. Photo Alexis Terrazas

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Javier-Dzul_01web.jpg>
Javier Antonio Chab Dzul, a 40-year-old Mexican homeless man of Mayan
ancestry, poses for a portrait near some of his street art on 19th
Street, between Shotwell and Folsom streets. Photo Alexis TerrazasJavier
Antonio Chab Dzul, a 40-year-old Mexican homeless man of Mayan ancestry,
poses for a portrait near some of his street art on 19th Street, between
Shotwell and Folsom streets. Photo Alexis Terrazas

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Javier-Dzul_02web.jpg>
Paintinted pieces of plywood sit outside Javier Antonio Chab Dzul’s tent
on 19th Street, between Shotwell and Folsom streets. Dzul, a 40-year-old
Mexican homeless man of Mayan ancestry, is a street artist. His
paintings help him cope with living on the street. Photo Alexis
TerrazasPaintinted pieces of plywood sit outside Javier Antonio Chab
Dzul’s tent on 19th Street, between Shotwell and Folsom streets. Dzul, a
40-year-old Mexican homeless man of Mayan ancestry, is a street artist.
His paintings help him cope with living on the street. Photo Alexis Terrazas

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Javier-Dzul_03web.jpg>
Rummaging through his artist tool bag, Javier Antonio Chab Dzul finds a
piece of his methamphetamine pipe. Dzul, a 40-year-old Mexican homeless
man of Mayan ancestry, is a street artist. His paintings help him cope
with living on the street. Photo Alexis TerrazasRummaging through his
artist tool bag, Javier Antonio Chab Dzul finds a piece of his
methamphetamine pipe. Dzul, a 40-year-old Mexican homeless man of Mayan
ancestry, is a street artist. His paintings help him cope with living on
the street. Photo Alexis Terrazas

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Javier-Dzul_04web.jpg>
Javier Antonio Chab Dzul’s artist tool bag. Dzul’s paintings help him
cope with living on the street. Photo Alexis TerrazasJavier Antonio Chab
Dzul’s artist tool bag. Dzul’s paintings help him cope with living on
the street. Photo Alexis Terrazas

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Javier-Dzul_05web.jpg>
Javier Antonio Chab Dzul smears green paint on his hand. Photo Alexis
TerrazasJavier Antonio Chab Dzul smears green paint on his hand. Photo
Alexis Terrazas

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Javier-Dzul_06web-1.jpg>
Javier Antonio Chab Dzul, a 40-year-old Mexican homeless man of Mayan
ancestry, poses for a portrait in front of his tent on 19th Street,
between Shotwell and Folsom streets. Photo Alexis TerrazasJavier Antonio
Chab Dzul, a 40-year-old Mexican homeless man of Mayan ancestry, poses
for a portrait in front of his tent on 19th Street, between Shotwell and
Folsom streets. Photo Alexis Terrazas

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Javier-Dzul_07web.jpg>
Javier Antonio Chab Dzul, a 40-year-old Mexican homeless man of Mayan
ancestry, poses for a portrait near some of his street art on 19th
Street, between Shotwell and Folsom streets. Photo Alexis TerrazasJavier
Antonio Chab Dzul, a 40-year-old Mexican homeless man of Mayan ancestry,
poses for a portrait near some of his street art on 19th Street, between
Shotwell and Folsom streets. Photo Alexis Terrazas

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Javier-Dzul_01web.jpg>

San Francisco’s Mission District is historically home to numerous murals
and creative spaces, and artists—many of whom, like Javier Antonio Chab
Dzul, live at the margins of society.

Dzul—a Mexican-born homeless man of Mayan ancestry—uses the streets as
his canvass, and his paintings don’t just cover a surface, but pain as well.

Follow the painted flowers—sprawled across intersections, side streets
and sidewalks decorated in a vibrant combination of colors—and you’ll
find Dzul living out of his small tent at 19^th and Shotwell streets.

“Do you know what this does for me?” Dzul asked as he touched up one of
his flower paintings on the sidewalk. “It distracts me so I don’t have
to think about my many problems. That’s why I do it.”

Hailing from Yaxhachén, a little town in the municipality of Oxkutzcab
near the Yucatan-Campeche border in southern Mexico, the 40-year-old
Dzul left home when he was 13. Raised speaking the ancient Mayan
language, he improved his Spanish after moving to Merida, the Yucatan
capital. Dzul eventually made his way to San Francisco 16 years ago,
leaving two of his children behind.

He wasn’t always homeless.

He’s worked in many San Francisco restaurant kitchens, and even had an
apartment at Turk and Hyde streets about nine years ago.

“That’s where we stayed, until I ended up here on the street,” Dzul
said. “When they kicked me out of the apartment, it was for not paying
rent. But honestly, I [had] sunk pretty low with drugs.”

Dzul said the building was eventually sold, and that he had to break the
padlock to his room to retrieve his belongings. He wandered first
through Golden Gate Park before finding a home in the encampment on
Shotwell Street, making friends and frequently speaking Mayan with Luis
Demetrio Gongora Pat. Gongora was fatally shot by two SFPD officers on
April 7. Gongora’s family has since filed a claim against the City and
County of San Francisco, alleging that the SFPD used excessive force
against Gongora.

“That bullet could’ve been for me,” said Dzul, who decorated the spot
where Gongora died with painted flowers. “Here in San Francisco, I’ve
seen many things. I’ve gotten to know homeless people who are a step
closer to death than they are alive, people with pain, with injuries
that should be treated. Police and DPW [Department of Public Works]
shouldn’t just go removing us, and throwing our things away. They should
ask us, ‘Hey, are you OK?’”

Dzul wasn’t always an artist, either.

“I never liked drawing,” Dzul said, whose brother in Mexico was an
artist. “I would always observe and try, but I would say, “the hell with
it,” and throw it away.”

“I never liked it, but look,” he added, pointing to one of his paintings.

Dzul has been practicing his street art for five years, first becoming
inspired by art that was displayed in his former apartment building.

“Many tell me that my paintings are magical. I believe that the magic
comes from within us. When you do things from your heart,” Dzul said. “I
continue to practice to this day. I don’t feel like a professional.”

“My mind is a little more open when I’m on drugs,” Dzul said.

Dzul smokes methamphetamine in the confines of his tent, so that
children don’t see him. Smoking helps him sleep on the street. And it’s
good for the hunger, too he said.

The hunger can get to him though. He scouts local cafes for leftover
bagels and pan dulce, and rummages through trash bins. But sometimes
those table scraps aren’t enough. The thought of stealing an expensive
bicycle or smashing a car window have crossed his mind.

“Can you believe that I can’t do it? My friends, they don’t have this
problem,” said Dzul. “I go out with that intention, and at times with
hunger.”

The urge to look for a laptop sitting in a car and flipping it for
$150—a sum that can feed him for a week—is strong. But something tells
him not to do it.

Instead, he looks for art supplies that allow him to channel what he
calls his “Mayan spirit.”

“Everything that I do, I consider that it comes from them. They built
great pyramids and painted numerous beautiful paintings, all done in
their way,” Dzul said. “They are gifts, I say, that they give us, gifts
that they were given to them by their ancestors. And now I’m here.”

homeless artist <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/homeless-artist/>
Javier Antonio Chab Dzul
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/javier-antonio-chab-dzul/> Luis
Gongora Pat <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/luis-gongora-pat/>
Mayan <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/mayan/> Mexico
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/mexico-en/> SF Homeless Project
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/sf-homeless-project/> Shotwell
Street <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/shotwell-street/> Yucatan
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/yucatan-en/>

Previous Post


      Once homeless youth talks life on the street
      <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/features/once-homeless-youth-talks-life-on-the-street/>

Next Post


      The God that abandoned Lima
      <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/features/the-god-that-abandoned-lima/>

Latest Print Issue
Powered by <https://issuu.com/explore>
Publish for Free <https://issuu.com/publishers?entryPoint=embed>
El Tecolote on Youtube
Recent Posts
cf6_kkk-bold-eagle_01_web
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/election-cartoons/>	


    Election Cartoons
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/election-cartoons/>

// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/election-cartoons/#respond>
A detention center in Arizona. Photo: Steve Pavey
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/opinion-en/there-are-no-borders-that-can-contain-the-cry-of-justice/>



    There are no borders that can contain the cry of...
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/opinion-en/there-are-no-borders-that-can-contain-the-cry-of-justice/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/opinion-en/there-are-no-borders-that-can-contain-the-cry-of-justice/#respond>

A stencil disparaging tech workers on a 24th Street sidewalk. Photo:
Mabel Jiménez
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/letters/letter-to-the-editor-techie-hate/>



    Letter to the editor: Techie hate
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/letters/letter-to-the-editor-techie-hate/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/letters/letter-to-the-editor-techie-hate/#respond>

Photo: Ekevara Kitpowsong
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/arts_culture/my-people-love-is-stronger-than-hate/>



    My people: Love is stronger than hate
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/arts_culture/my-people-love-is-stronger-than-hate/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/arts_culture/my-people-love-is-stronger-than-hate/#respond>

Prop 58 passed, allowing bilingual education in California schools. El
Tecolote Archives/Photo: Marina Forte
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/news/ballot-measure-results-show-ca-is-well-left-of-nation/>



    Ballot measure results show CA is well left of...
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/news/ballot-measure-results-show-ca-is-well-left-of-nation/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/news/ballot-measure-results-show-ca-is-well-left-of-nation/#respond>

Voter Guide


      About

El Tecolote newspaper began as a project in a La Raza Studies class at
San Francisco State University. Prof. Juan Gonzales created the class as
a way to channel more Latinos into journalism. In the 1970s, Latinos and
other people of color were virtually invisible in the major newsrooms.

Today El Tecolote continues to provide original local news, portraying
the diverse spectrum of Latino life.


      //Twitter

  * //RT @AccionLatinaSF <http://twitter.com/AccionLatinaSF>: Our Juan
    R. Fuentes Gallery turns 1 next month and to celebrate/fundraise we
    are hosting a special art auction with som…
    November 29th, 2016
  * //Encuentro del Canto Popular 30th Anniversary! • Dec. 11 • 7pm
    #encuentro <http://twitter.com/search?q=encuentro> @AccionLatinaSF
    <http://twitter.com/AccionLatinaSF> https://t.co/QWugKbgTKM	
    November 23rd, 2016

Copyright (c) 2016. All rights reserved.
Published by Acción Latina <http://www.accionlatina.org/>	

<#>
