SF Homeless Project
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=logo-lo_c9c5f5ebb63f---6286c006a24b>
Follow
<https://twitter.com/bayareahomeless><https://facebook.com/sfhomelessproject>
Sign in / Sign up
<https://medium.com/m/signin?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fsfhomelessproject.com%2Fhomeless-people-are-older-and-sicker-than-ever-before-heres-one-way-to-help-903740c5de49%3Fsource%3Duser_profile---------0--------->
Next story


        The Hidden Costs of Dirty Energy

<https://medium.com/climate-desk/the-hidden-costs-of-dirty-energy-eb050bb04119?source=read_next_metabar----------44>
86
1

  * Share
  *
    86

  *
*

Go to the profile of Mother Jones

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@motherjones?source=post_header_lockup>
Mother Jones
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@motherjones?source=post_header_lockup>BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
smart, fearless journalism
Jun 30

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*/Mark Murrmann/Mother Jones/*


  Homeless People Are Older and Sicker Than Ever. Here’s One Way to Help.


    Inside a program that’s cutting costs by prescribing housing.

By Nina Liss-Schultz <https://twitter.com/NinaLisss>

*“Everything,” Tom Wesley answers* when I ask what’s ailing him.
Diabetes. Multiple heart attacks. Chronic liver failure. “They’ve told
me I’m dying.”

Wesley, a towering man in a salmon-colored corduroy shirt buttoned just
at the top, is only 54. But for most of his adult life, he lived on the
streets. He refused to stay in shelters because he didn’t like the
structure; he says he also spent a significant time behind bars for
heroin possession. “You could say I was using heroin,” Wesley says with
a smirk. “But I don’t know who was using who — it sure used me up.”

This article is part of the */SF Homeless Project/*
<http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2016/06/san-francisco-homeless-project-mother-jones>,
a collaboration between nearly 70 media organizations to explore the
state of homelessness in San Francisco and potential solutions.

He quit a few years ago — after losing two wives to overdoses. Around
that time Wesley’s health problems started getting worse. Last year, a
terrible pain in his abdomen brought him to San Francisco General
Hospital, where he says he was admitted, via the emergency room, seven
times in a matter of three months. At that point he was already used to
the ER, having relied on it instead of primary care. “I wasn’t one for
doctors,” he says.

Wesley’s experience isn’t unique. Sixty-six
<https://www.hudexchange.info/resources/documents/2015-AHAR-Part-1.pdf>
percent of the country’s chronically homeless people — those
<https://www.hudexchange.info/resources/documents/DefiningChronicHomeless.pdf>
who have a disabling condition and who’ve been homeless for a year or
more (or four times in three years) — are living on the streets.
Chronically homeless adults have high rates
<https://www.usich.gov/resources/uploads/asset_library/USICH_OpeningDoors_Amendment2015_FINAL.pdf#page=26>
of mental illness, substance use, and incarceration. They tend
<https://www.usich.gov/resources/uploads/asset_library/USICH_OpeningDoors_Amendment2015_FINAL.pdf#page=26>
to be sicker than both housed people and other homeless people. And
they’re less likely to use primary or specialty care to address their
medical needs. Many make up the group of “super-utilizers
<https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-checkup/post/super-utilizers-place-huge-burden-on-health-care-system/2012/10/19/c62781ba-1a32-11e2-ad4a-e5a958b60a1e_blog.html>”:
patients who rack up huge medical costs from recurring yet preventable
ER and hospital visits.

According to one estimate
<http://www.nhchc.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/chronic-disease-combo-hch-conf-es.pdf>
from the National Health Care for the Homeless Council, more than 80
percent of all homeless people have at least one chronic health
condition. More than half have a mental illness. They are frequently
<http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK218236/> the victims of violent
crimes, and they’re more susceptible to traumatic injuries like assault
and robbery. Their living conditions also make them more likely
<http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK218236/> to have skin conditions
and respiratory infections.

    “When you see a homeless person in their 50s, you should imagine a
    75-year-old.”

Perhaps it’s no wonder, then, that people experiencing homelessness have
a life expectancy of between 42 and 52 years
<http://www.nationalhomeless.org/factsheets/health.html>, compared with
78 for the general population. A recent study
<http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26920935> by Margot Kushel, a
professor of medicine at the University of California-San Francisco,
found that homeless people in their 50s develop geriatric conditions
such as incontinence, failing eyesight, and cognitive impairment that
are typical of people 20 years older. “When you see a homeless person in
their 50s,” Kushel says, “you should imagine a 75-year-old.”

Kushel is also one of the founders of the San Francisco Medical Respite
Program, a long-term medical shelter located on the edge of the city’s
Tenderloin neighborhood that gives homeless people like Tom Wesley a
place to recuperate after being in the hospital. With the homeless
population in San Francisco and the rest of the country getting older — 
the number of homeless people age 60 or older in San Francisco increased
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/numbers/> 30 percent from
2007 to the 2014–15 fiscal year, and an estimated
<http://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/31/us/americas-aging-homeless-old-and-on-the-street.html?_r=0>
31 percent of homeless people in the United States were older than 50 in
2014, a 20 percent increase from 2007 — Respite and programs like it are
seeing more people who are managing both chronic diseases and short-term
illnesses. “We now have a group of homeless people that have more
complex and co-occurring medical needs than ever before,” Kushel says.

For those homeless people who live on the streets or in a shelter — most
of which are only open overnight — getting discharged from the hospital
often means losing their meds, struggling to clean their wounds, or
failing to make the specialist appointment across town. Others will get
even sicker. Some will go back to the emergency room and start the
process all over again.

“If you’re experiencing homelessness,” says Michelle Schneidermann, the
medical director at Respite, “you’re thinking about where you’re going
to get your next meal and how you’re going to keep yourself safe, not
where you’re going to refrigerate your meds or make your next appointment.”

As a result, homeless people visit the hospital at rates up to 12 times
higher
<http://www.nhchc.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/Hospitals-Should-Never-Discharge-Homeless-Patients-to-the-Streets.pdf>
than low-income people with housing. A 2007 study
<http://www.nhchc.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/FINALRespiteMonograph1.pdf>
in Boston found that the majority of high emergency room users were
homeless, according to the NHCHC. At one hospital, 16 homeless patients
visited the ER a combined 400 times in one year. Hospital readmissions
for homeless people are “strikingly high
<http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23929401>”; one study
<http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23929401> found that more than half
of the homeless people it followed after discharge were readmitted to
inpatient care within 30 days. Another recently published study found
that homeless people had a 30-day readmission rate of 22 percent,
compared with a rate of just 7 percent for housed people with the same
health concern. And once in the hospital, homeless patients stay nearly
twice <http://www.nhchc.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/Sept2011.pdf> as
long as housed people.

This reliance on emergency medical services is extremely costly to San
Francisco, which spends more
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/Housing-homeless-to-pay-off-in-long-run-budget-7953339.php>
on health care than on any other type of homeless service. According to
the /San Francisco/ /Chronicle/, the city spends $241 million annually
on homeless services, including
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/Myths-like-homeless-problem-not-going-away-7238304.php?t=668acdd1febaa6eec6&cmpid=twitter-premium>
an average of $87,480 in medical costs per year for each of the sickest
people on the streets, compared with $17,353 a year for each person in
supportive housing. Another estimate
<http://www.csh.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/12/Report_CostforIndividuals1.pdf>,
from 2004, places the cost of hospital care for the city’s homeless
people at more than $2,000 per person per day*, *by far the priciest
service. “People who are homeless use the most expensive parts of the
health care system,” says Schneidermann, who notes that SF General
discharges an average of 130 homeless people each month.

This is despite the fact that, in a city like San Francisco, health
insurance and access to outpatient primary care clinics are relatively
accessible, thanks mostly to Medicaid expansion. “Access to insurance is
not the biggest problem” Kushel says. “Their chaos of life prevents even
those with insurance from getting care.” Indeed, evidence shows that
even with access to primary care and specialty doctors, homeless people
still use emergency services at rates higher than everyone else. In one
study
<http://www.turner-white.com/memberfile.php?PubCode=jcom_nov11_homelessness.pdf>
based out of Canada, where health coverage is universal, people
experiencing homelessness still had longer inpatient stays and cost the
hospital more than housed patients.

“Appointment-based care is difficult for all of us, let alone someone
who is homeless,” Schneidermann says. “That’s where medical respite
comes in.”

The first medical respite programs for the homeless were founded
<http://www.nhchc.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/Sept2011.pdf> in Boston
and Washington, DC, in 1985, but the model gained currency in 2006, when
<http://www.nytimes.com/2006/11/17/us/17hospital.html> an elderly woman
in a hospital gown and slippers was spotted wandering on Los Angeles’
Skid Row. The woman, a homeless 63-year-old with dementia, had been
released from a nearby Kaiser hospital, which was later sued
<http://articles.latimes.com/2007/may/16/local/me-dumping16> by the city
and forced to establish new discharge rules. At least four other
hospitals were caught “patient dumping,” including once incident
<https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2016/apr/21/la-homeless-patient-dumping-lawsuit-good-samaritan-hospital>
when a paraplegic man was dropped on Skid Row and was later seen
dragging himself, along with a torn colostomy bag, down the street.

There are now nearly 80 homeless medical respite programs, more than
twice as many as in 2006. San Francisco’s Respite was founded in 2007 by
the city’s Department of Public Health to address the acute medical
needs (think broken bone or stab wound) of homeless patients who’ve
ended up in General’s inpatient care via the emergency room. But beyond
that, it might just offer an emergency room alternative to reach the
city’s sickest, most vulnerable homeless population.

With only 45 beds and a waitlist at least equal that, Respite
prioritizes people who are both the sickest and also the highest users
of the ER. More than a quarter of Respite clients have seven or more
chronic illnesses, and the average stay is five weeks, a figure that has
risen as the client population has aged. (The longest stay was almost
eight months.)

A 2006 study <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1483848/> that
compared homeless people who’d gotten into respite programs with those
who hadn’t found that the respite group had fewer ER visits the
following year. Among those admitted to the hospital following an
emergency visit, the respite group stayed an average of three days,
compared with eight days for the nonrespite group. A 2009 study found
that discharging homeless people from the hospital to respite was
associated with a 50 percent reduction in their likelihood of
readmission in the next three months.

The dining area at the San Francisco Medical Respite Program. */Mark
Murrmann/Mother Jones/*

Still, despite evidence that medical respite programs reach the health
system’s super-utilizers,**only 10
<https://www.nhchc.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/2015-medical-respite-program-directory.pdf>
respite centers nationwide are covered through Medicaid or
Medicare.**Instead, most programs rely on funding from hospitals,
donations, or state and local governments.

And so Respite has its limitations. A quarter of its clients go straight
from the program into permanent housing or long-term residential
treatment. Another 50 percent are discharged back to a shelter with a
case manager. The last quarter return to the streets.

The first time Tom Wesley was admitted to Respite, he was discharged to
a single-room-occupancy hotel. He promptly ditched that setup, traveled
to Cincinnati to see his children, and then returned to San Francisco’s
streets. Shortly afterward, he was back in the hospital and then
Respite, where he was diagnosed with chronic liver failure and moved
into what he calls a glorified nursing home — a permanent supportive
housing apartment just blocks away. Feeling like he’d tied up loose
ends, he decided to stay.

When I meet Wesley in Respite’s foyer, in front of the room that houses
the few dozen beds where the men stay, he’s been out for a few months
already. He’s wearing a Golden State Warriors cap, and his eyes are
blood red. We take the elevator up and walk to the facility’s small
meeting space, past the dining room where patients receive three meals a
day and the single-person rooms where women stay.

He grabs a seat with his back facing the bright light coming through a
window. As he tells me about his connection to Respite, Wesley’s legs
bounce up and down. “If there were more programs like this,” he says,
“people wouldn’t be dying on the streets every day.” ◼

*/Mark Murrmann/Mother Jones/*

/This story originally appeared on //motherjones.com/
<http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2016/06/homeless-san-francisco-medical-respite-health-care-aging>/./

Homeless
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/homeless?source=post>SFHomelessProject
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/sfhomelessproject?source=post>San
Francisco
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/san-francisco?source=post>Healthcare
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/healthcare?source=post>Solutions
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/solutions?source=post>
86
1
#
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Go to the profile of Mother Jones

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@motherjones?source=footer_card>


      Mother Jones <https://sfhomelessproject.com/@motherjones>

smart, fearless journalism

#
Follow
SF Homeless Project

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=footer_card>


      SF Homeless Project
      <https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=footer_card>

70 publishers, one focus.

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/be-kind-to-me-%E3%82%88%E3%82%8D%E3%81%97%E3%81%8F%E3%81%8A%E9%A1%98%E3%81%84%E3%81%97%E3%81%BE%E3%81%99-f58af3e4c6af?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
More on Homeless from SF Homeless Project
Be kind to me — よろしくお願いします

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/be-kind-to-me-%E3%82%88%E3%82%8D%E3%81%97%E3%81%8F%E3%81%8A%E9%A1%98%E3%81%84%E3%81%97%E3%81%BE%E3%81%99-f58af3e4c6af?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
Go to the profile of Marvin J. Miller

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@marvinjmiller>
Marvin J. Miller
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@marvinjmiller?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
13
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/the-outsiders-391951237fb5?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-41>
More from SF Homeless Project
The Outsiders

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/the-outsiders-391951237fb5?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-41>
Go to the profile of San Francisco Magazine

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@sanfranmag>
San Francisco Magazine
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@sanfranmag?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-41>
70
<https://psmag.com/one-last-thing-hostile-architecture-4d0a26bcd474?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Also tagged Homeless
One Last Thing: Hostile Architecture

<https://psmag.com/one-last-thing-hostile-architecture-4d0a26bcd474?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Go to the profile of Michael R. Fitzgerald

<https://psmag.com/@michaelrfitzgerald>
Michael R. Fitzgerald
<https://psmag.com/@michaelrfitzgerald?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
22
Responses
Write a response…
Unknown user
No responses yet
Show all responses

×

Don’t miss Mother Jones’s next story
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Mother JonesMother Jones
