KQED Menu

  *


      KQED Arts

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>

  * KQED Arts Menu

    <#>

  * KQED Arts Home

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Books

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/literature/>
      o Comedy

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/comedy/>
      o Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/culture/>
      o Dance

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/dance/>
      o Digital Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/digitalarts/>
      o Fashion/Design

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/design/>
      o Movies

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/music/>
      o News

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/news/>
      o Performance Art

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/performance/>
      o Pop Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/popculture/>
      o Theater

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/theater/>
      o TV

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/tv/>
      o Visual Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/visualarts/>
  * Programs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs

        <#>
      o Art School

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/artschool/>
      o The Bay Bridged

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/affiliates/the-bay-bridged/>
      o Culture Cue

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/culture-cue/>
      o The Do List

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
      o Earful

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/earful/>
      o Film School Shorts

        <http://blogs.kqed.org/filmschoolshorts/>
      o ImageMakers

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/imagemakers/>
      o Into the Mix

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/into-the-mix/>
      o KQED Pop

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/pop/>
      o Spark

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/spark/>
      o Truly CA

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/trulyca/>
  * Specials

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Specials

        <#>
      o Arts Education

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-in-education/>
      o Arts + Social Issues

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-plus-social-issues/>
      o pARTicipate

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/participate/>
      o Priced Out

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/pricedout/>
      o Our Creative Nature

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/our-creative-nature/>
      o Fall Arts Guide

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/fall-arts-guide-2016/>
  * The Do List

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
  * Videos

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/videos/>

  *


      KQED Arts

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>

  * KQED Arts Home

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Books

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/literature/>
      o Comedy

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/comedy/>
      o Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/culture/>
      o Dance

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/dance/>
      o Digital Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/digitalarts/>
      o Fashion/Design

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/design/>
      o Movies

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/music/>
      o News

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/news/>
      o Performance Art

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/performance/>
      o Pop Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/popculture/>
      o Theater

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/theater/>
      o TV

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/tv/>
      o Visual Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/visualarts/>
  * Programs

    <#>
      o Art School

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/artschool/>
      o The Bay Bridged

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/affiliates/the-bay-bridged/>
      o Culture Cue

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/culture-cue/>
      o The Do List

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
      o Earful

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/earful/>
      o Film School Shorts

        <http://blogs.kqed.org/filmschoolshorts/>
      o ImageMakers

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/imagemakers/>
      o Into the Mix

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/into-the-mix/>
      o KQED Pop

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/pop/>
      o Spark

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/spark/>
      o Truly CA

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/trulyca/>
  * Specials

    <#>
      o Arts Education

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-in-education/>
      o Arts + Social Issues

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-plus-social-issues/>
      o pARTicipate

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/participate/>
      o Priced Out

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/pricedout/>
      o Our Creative Nature

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/our-creative-nature/>
      o Fall Arts Guide

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/fall-arts-guide-2016/>
  * The Do List

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
  * Videos

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/videos/>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California


  KQED Arts <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>

Search

<#search-container>


  KQED Arts Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Search for:

Visual Arts <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/visualarts/>


  Homeless Blanket Project ‘Undercover’ Extends Long Past Super Bowl City

blanketsposterimage	

By Creo Noveno <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/author/crnoveno/>
June 29, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/homeless-blanket-project-undercover-extends-long-past-super-bowl-city/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/homeless-blanket-project-undercover-extends-long-past-super-bowl-city/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/homeless-blanket-project-undercover-extends-long-past-super-bowl-city/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/homeless-blanket-project-undercover-extends-long-past-super-bowl-city/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/homeless-blanket-project-undercover-extends-long-past-super-bowl-city/?share=email&nb=1>
*

Super Bowl City’s a thing of the past, but San Francisco has been
clearing streets of homeless encampments
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/02/02/tent-cities-compete-with-super-bowl-city-for-attention>
since the week-long event began. Yet, despite the city’s continuous
efforts to push the homeless out of sight,
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/22/san-francisco-to-vote-on-housing-not-tents-homelessness-measure>
they’re still there.

While local officials have their own ways of dealing it, San Francisco
artist Annice Jacoby aimed to address the city’s homeless issue through
her project Undercover <https://www.facebook.com/UndercoverSF/>, which
started during February’s Super Bowl festivities. Jacoby and her team
provided those living on the streets with blankets, seeking not only to
provide warmth to those who needed it, but also to incite conversation
and create visibility for a community that’s otherwise neglected
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/03/09/mayor-lee-blasts-talk-of-homeless-crisis-and-calls-for-critics-to-aid-citys-efforts>.

“Our goal is to use creativity to unite,” Jacoby says. “We’re making a
visual statement, making a ceremony of care; it’s a mechanism to address
this problem.”

Families, friends and other community members came together at knitting
circles held in two Mission stores, Praxis <https://missionpraxis.com/>
and Alley Cat Books. <http://www.alleycatbookshop.com/> Those who came
out would put together blankets that doubled as ponchos and distribute
them in the weeks leading up to the Super Bowl.

The project’s efforts gained national attention, with inquiries and
notes of appreciation coming in from other states, according to
Undercover’s Facebook page <https://www.facebook.com/UndercoverSF/>,
which also provides patterns
<https://www.facebook.com/UndercoverSF/posts/1029187463790582> for
people hoping to make and distribute blankets themselves.

“The whole idea was for people to feel like they’re making a difference
through making garments and connecting with people when they distribute
them,” says Ivan Vera, program manager at Hospitality House, which
helped print the Undercover blankets. “The goal is to get in touch with
those who are homeless and share their humanity – they’re not invisible
people; they’re just less fortunate.”

Jacoby has since gone on to speak about Undercover to different high
schools along the Peninsula, hoping to engage students with the project,
according to Txutxo Perez, one of the artists involved with the project.

“Some kids helped distribute during the first part of the project and
got really into it and wanted to bring the experience back to their
schools,” Perez says.

He says he believes bringing such experiences and information to the
younger generation is a start, as they’ll be the ones making significant
changes in the future.

While the larger blanket project was mostly focused on the Super Bowl,
Undercover has served as inspiration for smaller efforts: Praxis
distributed Undercover hats back in March, and Perez says an artist
friend of his in Greece started her own project that focuses on
recycling lifesaver vests from people displaced by war into backpacks
for them to use on further travels.

Ultimately the goal of the project was to connect people —
disenfranchised and not — and share each other’s humanity, and Vera says
he believes Undercover did just that.

“I hope the project has taught others to listen to people, have
compassion, start understanding how one becomes homeless – we don’t want
to lose that part of ourselves that make us human.”

/Watch our report on the Undercover project during the Super Bowl:/

Explore: News <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/news/>, Visual Arts
<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/visualarts/>, video
<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/tag/video/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/homeless-blanket-project-undercover-extends-long-past-super-bowl-city/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/homeless-blanket-project-undercover-extends-long-past-super-bowl-city/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/homeless-blanket-project-undercover-extends-long-past-super-bowl-city/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/homeless-blanket-project-undercover-extends-long-past-super-bowl-city/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/homeless-blanket-project-undercover-extends-long-past-super-bowl-city/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

0 Comments
<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/homeless-blanket-project-undercover-extends-long-past-super-bowl-city/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related Posts from KQED Arts

Artists Respond to City Sweep of Homeless for Super Bowl

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/02/06/artists-respond-to-city-sweep-of-homeless-for-super-bowl/>

Super Bowl Art Project Pulls Back the Covers on Homelessness

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/01/21/superbowl-art-project-pulls-back-the-covers-on-homelessness/>

Artists Take Path of Most ‘Resistance’ in Fight Against Displacement

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/05/19/artists-take-path-of-most-resistance-in-fight-against-displacement/>

Pro Arts’ Executive Director Steps Down, Latest in Wave of Recent Art
World Departures

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2015/05/27/pro-arts-executive-director-steps-down-latest-in-wave-of-recent-art-world-departures/>

Spanish Surrealist Salvador Dalí the New Toast of Monterey

<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/07/07/spanish-surrealist-salvador-dali-the-new-toast-of-monterey/>

Homeless & Arts Org-Backed Measure Earns Place on Nov. Ballot

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/07/21/homeless-arts-org-backed-measure-earns-place-on-nov-ballot/>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>


  Post navigation

Prev #HeterosexualPrideDay Proves We Can’t Have Nice Things, Let Alone
Hashtags

<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/heterosexualprideday-proves-we-cant-have-nice-things-let-alone-hashtags/>
Next Actor Alan Cumming Bares It All While Singing Sappy Songs

<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/actor-alan-cumming-bares-it-all-while-singing-sappy-songs/>



  About KQED Arts

KQED Arts provides daily arts news, reviews and profiles for the San
Francisco Bay Area.

  * Contributors <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/contributors/>
  * Contact Us <mailto:arts@kqed.org>


  About KQED

  * About <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/>

Funding for KQED Arts is provided by The William and Flora Hewlett
Foundation <http://www.hewlett.org/>.

The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation <http://www.hewlett.org/>

Support is also provided by the Kenneth Rainin Foundation and the
members of KQED.

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

[blank image]
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.


  When you need an art fix!

Close

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil
:)
