Valencia Cyclery Banner <javascript:void(0)>
MissionLocal <http://missionlocal.org/>


MissionLocal

Sections

  * Español <http://missionlocal.org/category/en-espanol/>
  * News <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/>
      o Mission Fire <http://missionlocal.org/mission-fire-r/>
      o Technology
        <http://missionlocal.org/category/money/technology-money/>
      o Business <http://missionlocal.org/category/money/>
      o Culture <http://missionlocal.org/category/the-arts/>
          + Food <http://missionlocal.org/category/food-topics/>
          + SROs: Rooms out of View
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/sro-topics/>
          + Dolores Park
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/dolores-park-topics/>
      o Transit <https://missionlocal.org/category/topics/transportation/>
          + BART <http://missionlocal.org/category/bart/>
          + Bikes <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/bikes-topics/>
      o Education <http://missionlocal.org/category/hall-pass/>
          + Elementary Schools
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/hall-pass/elementary-schools-2/>
          + Middle Schools
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/hall-pass/middle-schools/>
          + High School
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/hall-pass/high-school-hall-pass/>
      o Stop! Ask. <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/stop-ask/>
      o Street Science
        <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/street-science/>
      o Housing <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/housing-topics/>
          + 24th Street <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/24th/>
          + Mission Street
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/mission-street-topics/>
          + Valencia Street
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/valencia-street-topics/>
  * Trouble <http://missionlocal.org/category/trouble/>
  * Restaurant Reviews <http://missionlocal.org/restaurant-reviews/>
  * Housing <http://missionlocal.org/housingwatch/>
  * Guide <http://missionlocal.org/newcomers/>
      o The Essential Guide <http://missionlocal.org/newcomers/>
      o Stories on Local History
        <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/mission-history-topics/>
  * Events <https://missionlocal.org/mission-events/>
  * About <http://missionlocal.org/about/>
      o Shop <http://missionlocal.org/shop/>
  * Memberships <https://missionlocal.org/ml-membership/>
      o For Readers <http://missionlocal.org/ml-membership/>
      o For Business <http://missionlocal.org/ml-business-membership/>
      o We’ve Joined! Residents
        <http://missionlocal.org/contributing-members-page/>
      o We’ve Joined! Businesses <http://missionlocal.org/businessmembers/>
      o FAQs
        <https://missionlocal.org/2014/10/faqs-mission-locals-membership-drive/>
  * Advertise <http://missionlocal.org/advertise/>


  Homeless Families, Often Invisible, Take Shelter in SF Mission

Karen and her two daughters at the Mission shelter for families. Photo
by Laura Wenus

Karen and her two daughters at the Mission shelter for families. Photo
by Laura Wenus

By Laura Wenus <http://missionlocal.org/author/lauraw/>
<http://twitter.com/laurawenus> Posted June 29, 2016 7:00 am
Facebook <http://missionlocal.org/#facebook>Twitter
<http://missionlocal.org/#twitter>Share
<https://www.addtoany.com/share#url=http%3A%2F%2Fmissionlocal.org%2F2016%2F06%2Fhomeless-families-often-invisible-take-shelter-in-sf-mission%2F&title=Homeless%20Families%2C%20Often%20Invisible%2C%20Take%20Shelter%20in%20SF%20Mission>

Some of the city’s least visible but hardest hit homeless people take
refuge at an inconspicuous shelter in the Mission District, where
roughly 10 of the city’s thousands of homeless families can stay for
several months at a time.

“Here, they treat you like family,” said one mother, Karen, who has
stayed at the shelter since March. Karen was forced out of her home in
the Bayview in October of 2015 after giving birth to her third child.
Her landlord said the infant girl would put Karen’s family over the
occupancy limit of her apartment.

“I cried a lot. I felt sad, frustrated, like there was nothing to be
done,” she remembered of being thrown out. Karen is also a monolingual
Spanish speaker, an additional challenge in navigating services or an
employment search.

For the next five months, Karen lived primarily out of a car with her
son, daughters, and husband. Her mother, who lives in San Francisco,
would sometimes allow the family to stay, but limited capacity in her
home and the mother’s boyfriend, who did not approve of hosting an
additional family, made the arrangement unviable in the long term.

Mission Pie In Story <javascript:void(0)>

Karen’s situation is not unusual. Families in particular, said Kristin
Keller, will go to extreme measures to make sure their children do not
sleep on the streets. Keller is the program director of a drop-in center
at Compass Family Services, which helps connect families facing
homelessness with potential services.

“Parents will stay in bathrooms if they need to,” Keller said. “[One
mother] found a 24-hour Carl’s Junior and the security guard was nice
enough to rope off a corner for her and let her stay there.”

A playroom for children at the shelter.
<http://i2.wp.com/missionlocal.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/familyshelter2.jpg>

A recreation room for children at the shelter. Photo by Laura Wenus

A family is generally considered homeless by the city when its members
share cramped quarters in an unstable situation — like those sharing an
SRO room, living in an illegal space like a garage or facing an imminent
eviction.

Of the San Francisco school district’s 56,000 students, some 2,300
students were homeless
<https://hamiltonfamilycenter.org/wp-content/themes/HamiltonFamilyCenter/images/HamiltonPublicSchoolWhitePaper-Electronic-Copy.pdf>in
May 2014 and that number has only grown. The shelter wait list for
families stretches to 250 or so families.

“It really comes down to that there just isn’t…enough housing
opportunities here for shelter,” Keller said. “It’s not visible. If just
the number of families who are on the shelter waitlist and people were
seeing that every day, believe me, things would change.”

Like their single, childless counterparts, parents with children who
find themselves without shelter in the city often have strong ties to
the city that keep them here. The Coalition on Homelessness estimates
that some 71 percent of those living on the streets used to live in San
Francisco. Compass Family Services estimates that roughly 75 percent of
families on the city’s shelter waitlist lived, worked, or have children
in the school system of San Francisco. In many cases, both parents are
employed even as the family becomes homeless. Karen’s husband, for
example, works at Foreign Cinema. Karen stays at the shelter watching
the children.

“I think there’s’ been an unfortunate myth that families are just
flocking here by the droves [for services]. It’s basically completely
untrue,” Keller said.

Karen was connected to the family shelter though a church acquaintance.
She spent nine months on the waitlist before being selected for a room
at the center.

The Mission family shelter is a slightly sprawling but otherwise
handsome building tucked away on a residential street. Before it was
taken over by Catholic Charities, which runs the family shelter, it
served as an elder home, and at one point was a youth center. 21 rooms
at the shelter house from two to more than six people at a time. Some
have rooms with private bathrooms, while others share restrooms in a
hallway. It stands in stark contrast to the temporary shelters that
often are the only available option for parents in dire straits.

“Emergency shelters are mats on the floor of a church where you have to
get up every day at 7 a.m. and leave try to get your kids to school,”
Keller said.

One of the shared bathrooms inside the shelter.
<http://i0.wp.com/missionlocal.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/familyshelter3.jpg>

One of the shared bathrooms inside the shelter. Photo by Laura Wenus

The laundry room at St. Joseph's.

The laundry room at the family shelter. Photo by Laura Wenus

At the shelter, Children can participate in arts and gardening programs
as well as occasionally indulge in computer time or video games. Parents
receive help from caseworkers to figure out their next steps in terms of
employment and of course, housing – their stays are supposed to be
limited to three months, with an extension to six if necessary.

“One of the best things is that they teach you how to save money and to
spend wisely,” Karen said. It helps that the shelter is completely free.

Though Karen has been looking around at apartments in San Francisco,
housing costs in San Francisco have taken their toll both in
displacement and the inability of service providers to provide
replacement housing.

“A year ago I was able to house a lot of families in or near San
Francisco or Oakland,” said Marianna Estrada, a manager and caseworker
at the shelter. “Now it’s Sacramento, Stockton, Fresno.”

For Karen, the best option might be even farther away: the family is
considering moving to Virginia. With family there that could provide a
temporary supportive network while the family gets back on its feet,
their best shot might be the city’s Homeward Bound program, a city
program that pays for transportation to send the homeless to stay with
relatives or other who can support them.

Asked for her thoughts on moving across the country, Karen acknowledged
its pragmatism.

“I’ve looked at the Craigslist page and the prices are very different.
Here the prices are $2,000 for a very small place. There, you can get a
three bedroom for $1,000,” she said.

Estrada noted that the Homeward Bound program is very fast-acting —
which could be important in Karen’s situation. With nearly five months
under her belt at the shelter, which is currently at full capacity, her
time is once more running out.

/This story was published as part of a citywide initiative of some 70
news organizations to cover homelessness. You can see the full range of
coverage here <http://www.sfgate.com/homeless/>./


Share this:

  * Print
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/06/homeless-families-often-invisible-take-shelter-in-sf-mission/#print>
  * Email
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/06/homeless-families-often-invisible-take-shelter-in-sf-mission/?share=email&nb=1>
  * More <#>
*

  *
  *
  *
  * Share on Tumblr
    <https://www.tumblr.com/share/link/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fmissionlocal.org%2F2016%2F06%2Fhomeless-families-often-invisible-take-shelter-in-sf-mission%2F&name=Homeless%20Families%2C%20Often%20Invisible%2C%20Take%20Shelter%20in%20SF%20Mission>
*


      /Related/

Thirteen and Homeless — Anthony's Not Alone
<http://missionlocal.org/2014/02/13-and-homeless-hes-not-alone/>February
19, 2014In "Education"

San Francisco Homeless Respond to Tent Ban
<http://missionlocal.org/2016/06/san-francisco-homeless-respond-to-tent-ban/>June
28, 2016In "Featured"

Homeless with Children
<http://missionlocal.org/2011/11/homeless-with-children/>November 3,
2011In "Front Page"

Facebook <http://missionlocal.org/#facebook>Twitter
<http://missionlocal.org/#twitter>Share
<https://www.addtoany.com/share#url=http%3A%2F%2Fmissionlocal.org%2F2016%2F06%2Fhomeless-families-often-invisible-take-shelter-in-sf-mission%2F&title=Homeless%20Families%2C%20Often%20Invisible%2C%20Take%20Shelter%20in%20SF%20Mission>

Filed under: Featured <http://missionlocal.org/category/featured/>,
Front Page <http://missionlocal.org/category/front-page/>, Housing
<http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/housing-topics/>, Immigrant
Life <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/immigrant-life/>, Mobile
<http://missionlocal.org/category/mobile/>, Newsletter
<http://missionlocal.org/category/newsletter/>, SF Homeless Project
<http://missionlocal.org/category/sf-homeless-project/>, Today's Mission
<http://missionlocal.org/category/todays-mission/>

Tagged: Affordable Housing
<http://missionlocal.org/tag/affordable-housing/>, homelessness
<http://missionlocal.org/tag/homelessness/>, housing
<http://missionlocal.org/tag/housing/>


    You may also like:

#

  * File photo: Students participate in a workshop at Mission High
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/classroom-volunteers-sought-for-mission-schools/>Classroom
    Volunteers Sought for Mission Schools
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/classroom-volunteers-sought-for-mission-schools/>
  * Mi Pueblita near 24th. Photo by Lydia Chávez
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-margarita-party/>SNAP:
    Margarita Party? <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-margarita-party/>
  * Multikulti at 539 Valencia St. Photo by Joe Rivano Barros.
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/multikulti-on-valencia-street-to-close-after-16-years/>Multikulti
    on Valencia Street to Close After 16 Years
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/multikulti-on-valencia-street-to-close-after-16-years/>

Comments are closed.

Full name required to post. For full details, read our Policy
<http://missionlocal.org/terms#comments>	
Get Mission Local's Weekly Newsletter

Search for:

<http://www.facebook.com/missionlocalsf/> <http://twitter.com/mlnow/>
<http://www.vimeo.com/missionlocal/>
<http://instagram.com/missionlocal/> <http://missionlocal.org/feed/>
Snaps from the Community <https://missionlocal.org/missionlocalsnaps/>


    Today's Mission

  *


            Classroom Volunteers Sought for Mission Schools
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/classroom-volunteers-sought-for-mission-schools/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 5:25 pm

  *


            SNAP: Margarita Party?
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-margarita-party/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 2:58 pm

  *


            Multikulti on Valencia Street to Close After 16 Years
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/multikulti-on-valencia-street-to-close-after-16-years/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 2:53 pm

  *


            Schools Respond to Post-Election Fears With March in SF
            Mission
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/schools-respond-to-post-election-fears-with-march-in-sf-mission/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 2:13 pm

  *


            ML News Wire: Off to Salvador with a Bag of Books,...
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/ml-news-wire-off-to-salvador-with-a-bag-of-books-la-victorias-planned-bar-and-more/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 1:13 pm

  *


            Man Injured in Shooting Near Dolores Park
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/man-injured-in-shooting-near-dolores-park/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 10:56 am

  *


            3-Car Crash in SF’s Mission Sends Man to Hospital
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/3-car-crash-in-mission-district-this-morning/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 9:59 am

  *


            Facing Ageism with Dance, Photography, Fashion at ODC
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/facing-ageism-with-dance-photography-fashion-at-odc/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 9:00 am

  *


            In Stunner, City Strikes Down Major Mission Project
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/in-stunner-city-strikes-down-major-mission-project/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 6:00 am

  *


            Standing Rock Fund Raiser Tonight at the Make Out Room
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/standing-rock-fund-raiser-tonight-at-the-make-out-room/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 5:20 pm

  *


            Dolores Park “Eco Pop-Up” Deemed Successful
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/dolores-park-eco-pop-up-deemed-successful/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 4:40 pm

  *


            Two Men Injured, One Arrested in SF Mission Shootout
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/two-men-injured-one-arrested-in-sf-mission-shootout/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 11:17 am

  *


            SNAP: Banking is so Boring
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-banking-is-so-boring/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 10:56 am

  *


            News from Around the Bay: Wrongful Evictions and More
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/news-from-around-the-bay-wrongful-evictions-and-more/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 9:13 am

  *


            A Week After Trump, Leftist San Francisco Bookstore Modern
            Times Closes...
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/a-week-after-trump-modern-times-closes-doors/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 6:00 am

  *


            Two Injured in SF’s Mission After Shots Fired on Harrison
            Street
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/two-injured-in-sfs-mission-after-shots-fired-on-harrison-street/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 5:35 pm

  *


            Five Violent Robberies, Two Arrests in SF Mission Over
            Veteran’s Day...
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/five-violent-robberies-two-arrests-in-sf-mission-over-veterans-day-weekend/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 2:25 pm

  *


            SF’s Urban Film Festival
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/sfs-urban-film-festival/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 12:01 pm

  *


            Notes of Post-Election Empathy Adorn BART Station Walls
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/notes-of-post-election-empathy-adorn-bart-station-walls/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 11:40 am

  *


            SNAP: Breakfast on the Go
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-breakfast-on-the-go/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 10:56 am

••••
Image
{{ title }}
{{ description }}

  * {{ comment.text }} - @{{ comment.from.username }}

{{ comment_count }} {{ comment_term }}{{ comment_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }} {{ like_count }} {{ like_term }}{{ like_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }}
Image
Dance Brigade's Dance Mission
Tonight! Don't sleep.
<https://ad.broadstreetads.com/click/85306>
Image
{{ title }}
{{ description }}

  * {{ comment.text }} - @{{ comment.from.username }}

{{ comment_count }} {{ comment_term }}{{ comment_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }} {{ like_count }} {{ like_term }}{{ like_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }}
ODC
A sneak peek of our children's chorus rehearsing for "The Velveteen
Rabbit"! See these talented kids onstage at the YBCA, Nov 25-Dec 11. Tix
at www.odc.dance/vr

  * Maya is in this! - @Berni Hui
  * - awesome - " "love . . . " - t-h-i-s - & Thanks So Much - ODC/Dance
    / ODC ! - @Catherine Kirsch

2 comments 4 likes
<https://ad.broadstreetads.com/click/81403>
Mission Pie ORDER <javascript:void(0)>
CASASF SR <javascript:void(0)>Body Manipulations SR
<javascript:void(0)>San Jalisco SR <javascript:void(0)>
Image
{{ title }}
{{ description }}

  * {{ comment.text }} - @{{ comment.from.username }}

{{ comment_count }} {{ comment_term }}{{ comment_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }} {{ like_count }} {{ like_term }}{{ like_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }}
Image
Mission Comics and Art
Artist Brian Stelfreeze show his amazing skills with this cover to Black
Panther #8
<https://ad.broadstreetads.com/click/80991>

Copyright 2016, MissionLocal | Powered by WordPress and the CalPress
theme | Privacy Policy <http://missionlocal.org/terms#privacy> |
Register <http://missionlocal.org/wp-login.php?action=register> | Log in
<http://missionlocal.org/wp-login.php>

Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

Copied!
Facebook <http://missionlocal.org/#facebook>Twitter
<http://missionlocal.org/#twitter>Google+
<http://missionlocal.org/#google_plus>Pinterest
<http://missionlocal.org/#pinterest>Email
<http://missionlocal.org/#email>LinkedIn
<http://missionlocal.org/#linkedin>Reddit
<http://missionlocal.org/#reddit>Tumblr
<http://missionlocal.org/#tumblr>WordPress
<http://missionlocal.org/#wordpress>Google Gmail
<http://missionlocal.org/#google_gmail>WhatsApp
<http://missionlocal.org/#whatsapp>StumbleUpon
<http://missionlocal.org/#stumbleupon>AIM
<http://missionlocal.org/#aim>Amazon Wish List
<http://missionlocal.org/#amazon_wish_list>AOL Mail
<http://missionlocal.org/#aol_mail>App.net
<http://missionlocal.org/#app_net>Baidu
<http://missionlocal.org/#baidu>Balatarin
<http://missionlocal.org/#balatarin>BibSonomy
<http://missionlocal.org/#bibsonomy>Bitty Browser
<http://missionlocal.org/#bitty_browser>Blinklist
<http://missionlocal.org/#blinklist>Blogger Post
<http://missionlocal.org/#blogger_post>BlogMarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#blogmarks>Bookmarks.fr
<http://missionlocal.org/#bookmarks_fr>Box.net
<http://missionlocal.org/#box_net>BuddyMarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#buddymarks>Buffer
<http://missionlocal.org/#buffer>Care2 News
<http://missionlocal.org/#care2_news>CiteULike
<http://missionlocal.org/#citeulike>Copy Link
<http://missionlocal.org/#copy_link>Delicious
<http://missionlocal.org/#delicious>Design Float
<http://missionlocal.org/#design_float>Diary.Ru
<http://missionlocal.org/#diary_ru>Diaspora
<http://missionlocal.org/#diaspora>Digg
<http://missionlocal.org/#digg>diHITT
<http://missionlocal.org/#dihitt>Diigo
<http://missionlocal.org/#diigo>Douban
<http://missionlocal.org/#douban>Draugiem
<http://missionlocal.org/#draugiem>DZone
<http://missionlocal.org/#dzone>Evernote
<http://missionlocal.org/#evernote>Facebook Messenger
<http://missionlocal.org/#facebook_messenger>Fark
<http://missionlocal.org/#fark>Flipboard
<http://missionlocal.org/#flipboard>Folkd
<http://missionlocal.org/#folkd>Google Bookmarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#google_bookmarks>Google Classroom
<http://missionlocal.org/#google_classroom>Hacker News
<http://missionlocal.org/#hacker_news>Hatena
<http://missionlocal.org/#hatena>Instapaper
<http://missionlocal.org/#instapaper>Jamespot
<http://missionlocal.org/#jamespot>Kakao
<http://missionlocal.org/#kakao>Kik <http://missionlocal.org/#kik>Kindle
It <http://missionlocal.org/#kindle_it>Known
<http://missionlocal.org/#known>Line
<http://missionlocal.org/#line>LiveJournal
<http://missionlocal.org/#livejournal>Mail.Ru
<http://missionlocal.org/#mail_ru>Mendeley
<http://missionlocal.org/#mendeley>Meneame
<http://missionlocal.org/#meneame>Mixi
<http://missionlocal.org/#mixi>MySpace
<http://missionlocal.org/#myspace>Netlog
<http://missionlocal.org/#netlog>Netvouz
<http://missionlocal.org/#netvouz>NewsVine
<http://missionlocal.org/#newsvine>NUjij
<http://missionlocal.org/#nujij>Odnoklassniki
<http://missionlocal.org/#odnoklassniki>Oknotizie
<http://missionlocal.org/#oknotizie>Outlook.com
<http://missionlocal.org/#outlook_com>Pinboard
<http://missionlocal.org/#pinboard>Plurk
<http://missionlocal.org/#plurk>Pocket
<http://missionlocal.org/#pocket>Print
<http://missionlocal.org/#print>PrintFriendly
<http://missionlocal.org/#printfriendly>Protopage Bookmarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#protopage_bookmarks>Pusha
<http://missionlocal.org/#pusha>Qzone
<http://missionlocal.org/#qzone>Rediff MyPage
<http://missionlocal.org/#rediff>Renren
<http://missionlocal.org/#renren>Segnalo
<http://missionlocal.org/#segnalo>Sina Weibo
<http://missionlocal.org/#sina_weibo>SiteJot
<http://missionlocal.org/#sitejot>Skype
<http://missionlocal.org/#skype>Slashdot
<http://missionlocal.org/#slashdot>SMS
<http://missionlocal.org/#sms>Stumpedia
<http://missionlocal.org/#stumpedia>Svejo
<http://missionlocal.org/#svejo>Symbaloo Feeds
<http://missionlocal.org/#symbaloo_feeds>Telegram
<http://missionlocal.org/#telegram>Trello
<http://missionlocal.org/#trello>Tuenti
<http://missionlocal.org/#tuenti>Twiddla
<http://missionlocal.org/#twiddla>TypePad Post
<http://missionlocal.org/#typepad_post>Viadeo
<http://missionlocal.org/#viadeo>Viber
<http://missionlocal.org/#viber>VK <http://missionlocal.org/#vk>Wanelo
<http://missionlocal.org/#wanelo>Webnews
<http://missionlocal.org/#webnews>WeChat
<http://missionlocal.org/#wechat>Wykop
<http://missionlocal.org/#wykop>XING
<http://missionlocal.org/#xing>Yahoo Bookmarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#yahoo_bookmarks>Yahoo Mail
<http://missionlocal.org/#yahoo_mail>Yahoo Messenger
<http://missionlocal.org/#yahoo_messenger>Yoolink
<http://missionlocal.org/#yoolink>YouMob
<http://missionlocal.org/#youmob>Yummly
<http://missionlocal.org/#yummly>////
AddToAny <https://www.addtoany.com/>
Facebook

<http://missionlocal.org/#facebook>Twitter

<http://missionlocal.org/#twitter>Google+

<http://missionlocal.org/#google_plus>Pinterest

<http://missionlocal.org/#pinterest>Email

<http://missionlocal.org/#email>LinkedIn

<http://missionlocal.org/#linkedin>Reddit

<http://missionlocal.org/#reddit>Tumblr

<http://missionlocal.org/#tumblr>
Google Gmail

<http://missionlocal.org/#google_gmail>AOL Mail

<http://missionlocal.org/#aol_mail>Outlook.com

<http://missionlocal.org/#outlook_com>Yahoo Mail

<http://missionlocal.org/#yahoo_mail>Any email

<http://missionlocal.org/#email_form>Email app

<http://missionlocal.org/#email_form>
More…

:)
