Home <http://sfpublicpress.org/>

SIGN UP FOR OUR
E-NEWSLETTER

<http://sfpublicpress.org/newsletter> a
<http://twitter.com/sfpublicpress> b
<http://www.facebook.com/SFPublicPress> ,
<http://sfpublicpress.org/news/feed> z <http://sfpublicpress.tumblr.com/>


      BECOME A MEMBER

DONATE TO THE PUBLIC PRESS

<http://sfpublicpress.org/membership>

  * Special Reports

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/special-reports>
      o Election 2016

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/election2016>
      o Campaign Finance

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/costofvotes>
      o The Cost of Living Here

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/costofliving>
      o Election 2015

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/election2015>
      o Sea Level Rise

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/searise>
      o School Diversity

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/schooldiversity>
      o Homelessness

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/homelessness>
      o Housing Solutions

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/housingsolutions>
      o Public Schools

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/publicschools>
      o Workforce Development

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/workforce>
      o Climate Change

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/climate>
      o Minimum Wage

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/minimumwage>
      o Earthquakes

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/earthquakes>
      o Domestic Violence

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/domesticviolence>
      o Bay Area Smart Growth

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/smartgrowth>
      o Human Trafficking

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/trafficking>
      o Healthy SF: Who Pays?

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/healthy-sf>
      o Better Budget

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/better-budget>
      o Media Meltdown

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/media-meltdown>
      o Muni

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/special-reports/muni>
      o City Budget Watchdog

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/special-reports/city-budget-watchdog>
      o Treasure Island

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/special-reports/treasure-island>
      o Bay Bridge

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/special-reports/bay-bridge>
  * BUY THE PAPER

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/where-to-buy-the-newspaper>
  * BACK ISSUES

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/back-issues>
  * ARCHIVES

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/archives>
  * ABOUT

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/about>
  * BLOG

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/blog>
  * CONTACT

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/contact>
  * DONATE

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/donate>


  Homeless Lose Economic Opportunity as Goodwill Flagship Store Closes

 1595 257Google +2 2 5
By 
Hye-Jin Kim <http://sfpublicpress.org/members/hye-jin-kim>
San Francisco Public Press
 — Jun 29 2016 - 11:51am

/*CLARIFICATION* (7/5/2016): The Goodwill Flagship store was comprised
of two retail stores (the main storefront and the As-Is outlet),
corporate offices and classrooms for job training services. The As-Is
store closed on June 30. The rest of the flagship's operations are in
the process of closing, likely by the end of this year, according to the
redevelopment timeline./

Goodwill’s flagship store at 1500 Mission St. was a lifeline for Tony Bones.

He was not a customer or an employee. Neither was he enrolled in the
job-training program. Yet for the past year, Bones, 48, spent most
weekday mornings at the Goodwill headquarters, by the As-Is warehouse.

Outside the store, he scavenged for second-hand goods to run his own
sidewalk thrift shop. Some of his latest finds: an extra-large fan, a
questionably working microwave, a pocket knife.

The additional income kept him out of jail.

“I was a petty thief all my life. If I steal one more time, I’m done
for,” Bones said. “But I don’t have to steal here.”

Though not through eviction like many San Francisco residents, Bones’
life is being upended by the city’s housing crisis and the soaring value
of real estate.

On June 30, Goodwill’s As-Is store will shut its doors for good. The
operation is being consolidated with the charity’s smaller location in
Burlingame, 15 miles south and a car ride away.

Its closing is the first visible sign of redevelopment, first proposed
in 2014, on this block located at the confluence of three main streets:
Mission, Market, and South Van Ness. It is the beginning of a process
that will dismantle an ecosystem of services this Goodwill store once
provided, either directly or indirectly, to the city’s low-income and
homeless populations.


    Flagship was a resource hub

Tucked behind the main Goodwill storefront, the As-Is store is the only
place in San Francisco to buy used goods by weight. It is also one of
the largest warehouses of its kind in the Bay area. Thrift vendors from
as far as Fresno drive up weekly to restock their stores, buying and
sorting through five, 10, sometimes 20 blue bins brimming with donated
goods.

Vendors park their vans or moving trucks alongside the store's entrance
on 11th Street. Rummaging through a variety of items from shoes to
computer cables, they carefully load what could be resold into their
vehicles. Everything else gets chucked back into the bins as trash.

People mill about, picking through the piles of rejected goods. Some are
homeless, many are not, and all are interested in free stuff. Most
collect items for personal use, but there are a few, like Bones, who
scavenge to sell on the streets.

In addition to retail, the flagship location contains a warehouse,
administrative offices, and classrooms. A vital resource hub for
low-income or unemployed individuals, the building is a one-stop shop
for job training, employment and discount goods.

Its location at the city’s center also makes it the most accessible via
public transit. Three main streets intersect around the site, and within
a block are four Muni stops for 16 different bus and rail routes. From
the 1880s through the 1950s, the golden era of streetcars, the area was
known as “the Hub.”


    More affordable housing

The Goodwill site is located in the rapidly developing Market-Octavia
area, near the Mid-Market neighborhood. Two high rises — a 39-story
building of apartments and retail space and a 17-story office building —
will replace it.

The Planning Department describes the future of Market-Octavia
<http://sf-planning.org/market-street-hub-project> as a “vibrant new
mixed-use neighborhood.” The redevelopment will also help the city
comply with Proposition K <http://sfpublicpress.org/election2015/propK>,
voter-approved last year, and Mayor Ed Lee’s executive directive
<http://www.sfmayor.org/modules/showdocument.aspx?documentid=374> in
2013. Both support the department’s decision “to aggressively pursue new
opportunities to increase housing stock, especially permanently
affordable units.”

“Market-Octavia is supposed to be a residential district,” said Maia
Small, an architect in the Planning Department. She said the block has
the potential to be densely populated because of its proximity to Market
Street and multiple transit routes.

Unlike other nonprofits forced out of the city by rising rents
<http://www.studycenter.org/test/cce/issues/139/CCX-139-all.pdf>,
Goodwill owned the property at 1500 Mission St. In 2014, Goodwill sold
the property to Related California <http://www.relatedcalifornia.com/>
for $65 million. To help the firm finance the redevelopment, the Mayor’s
Office of Housing and Community Development applied for a $375 million
tax-exempt bond
<https://sfgov.legistar.com/View.ashx?M=F&ID=3182776&GUID=5BE16B3C-50AB-466E-9F7B-749B6B86A435>
from the state.

“Instead of paying a construction loan, they have tax-exempt debt,” said
Kate Hartley, the office’s deputy director. She added that such state
bonds are issued “all the time.” The city will receive $937,500 from
Related California, or a quarter of a percent of the bond’s total value
for securing the funding.

To qualify for these bonds, the developer’s plan
<http://www.relatedcalifornia.com/ourcompany/properties/203/1500-mission-street/>
just meets the affordable-housing requirement: 20 percent.

The project includes 112 below-market-rate apartments, though the
passage of Proposition C
<https://ballotpedia.org/San_Francisco,_California,_Affordable_Housing_Requirements_Charter_Amendment,_Proposition_C_(June_2016)>
last year might up this number to 120, offering low- and middle-income
families some relief from the highest rents in the country. The
remaining 448 luxury apartments will be market-rate.

In deliberations weighing the possible costs and benefits of the
Goodwill site’s redevelopment to the low-income community, Hartley said
her office “has no authority over the entitlements for that site.”


    Low-income community loses

For shoppers who frequent the flagship store on a regular basis, the
proposed housing development does not outweigh the loss of Goodwill’s
biggest retail complex, especially the As-Is warehouse. In 2009, during
the depths of the recession, the outlet saw a 38 percent increase
<http://www.sfgate.com/bayarea/article/Shoppers-charge-into-Goodwill-s-S-F-As-Is-Store-3291106.php>
in revenue, while nationwide sales dropped 6.5 percent nationwide.

“This is the one they should keep. They’ve got the warehouse,” said
60-year-old Little Eddy, who did not want to give his last name. He has
been coming here since the flagship first opened.

“I don’t think it’s good that they’re moving the store. It’s going to
hurt the city’s poorest,” said Marcel Alley, the As-Is store’s assistant
manager. He will keep his managerial position at the new store. “And
Burlingame is not like this. I heard it’s kind of a nice town, not a lot
of poor people.”

The poverty rate in the San Mateo County suburb is 6.4 percent, compared
with 13.3 percent in San Francisco. Considering that the city’s
population is nearly 30 times greater than Burlingame’s, the difference
between the number of low-income residents, people who could benefit
most from Goodwill’s discount outlet, is staggering.

Alley said around 50 to 70 people visit his store each day. At least
eight thrift vendors, sometimes as many as 15, show up weekday mornings
to purchase bulk bins.

Furthermore, 40 percent of the people who benefit from its employment
services are “homeless,” according to the SF Goodwill’s annual report
<http://sfgoodwill.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/sf-goodwill_annual-report_2014_online.pdf>.
The number of unhoused people in San Francisco is nearly five times the
number in the entire county of San Mateo. Of the 7,539 San Franciscans
without stable homes
<http://www.sfbos.org/Modules/ShowDocument.aspx?documentid=56163>, more
than half live in District 6, where the flagship store was located. 


    A long trip to Burlingame

For thrift vendors, the drive to Burlingame will take an additional 20
or 30 minutes, depending on traffic. But for Bones and others without a
car, the commute on BART train will take close to an hour, including a
walk of more than a mile.

Unlike Muni, BART does not offer discounts to low-income passengers.
From San Francisco to Burlingame, the cheapest round-trip ticket is $9.30.

Nonetheless, Bones intends to persevere.

“It’s not going to stop me from going there. It’s what’s keeping me
alive,” said Bones. He plans to lug items in a garbage can back to San
Francisco.

That may be easier said than done. Though current BART rules ban only
motorized vehicles, a customer service representative said there would
likely be no space for something “the size of a garbage can” during peak
commute hours.

Most of the bulk sales occur around 9 a.m., when the warehouse opens,
Alley said.

Others said they would be affected by the store’s relocation, and would
be unlikely to make frequent trips.

“Well, where am I supposed to go ‘shopping’ now?” said Jenny Nguyen, as
she neatly packed her finds into a suitcase. Everything, including the
luggage, was recently salvaged from a nearby bin.


    City to build a ‘one-stop shop’

Goodwill’s one-stop shop will undergo a fragmented relocation. The
corporate offices and employment services will move to the Marina
District, donation storage and distribution to South San Francisco and
the outlet store to Burlingame.

The property’s new owner, Related California, will demolish the Goodwill
site next year for another kind of one-stop shop.

“This will be a one-stop permitting shop,” said John Updike, the city’s
Director of Real Estate. The city has an agreement with Related
California to buy the new office building for a tentative $328 million
upon completion in 2019. Currently scattered in three different
locations around Civic Center, the city’s planning, building and public
works departments will finally be housed under one roof.

“We did have a discussion with Goodwill. We didn’t want to be displacing
them. But they put the property on the market — they made this decision
first, Updike said. They made the call here, that they are sitting on
under-utilized property.” Goodwill’s two-story flagship store is on a
block zoned for high-rise construction.

For $16 million, their new building on Bay Street is “a really amazing
asset, said William Rogers, interim CEO at the Goodwill of San
Francisco, San Mateo and Marin. He said it would work with neighboring
businesses to provide job opportunities beyond its retail or warehouse
operations. Goodwill will operate a new center for workforce services
offering training, interviews and resume-writing guidance. Tech classes
are also in the works.

With the $40 million profit from its relocation, Rogers explained,
Goodwill created an investment portfolio “for the next 100 years.”

“This is sort of an endowment,” he said. “We make about 80 percent of
what we need to operate. This helps us tremendously. It is fundamentally
about the future. It means we have a little flexibility in terms of
serving folks with barriers to employment.”

*Filed in:*

  * Civics <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/civics>
  * Demographics
    <http://sfpublicpress.org/category/topics/diversity/demographic-changes>
  * Government <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/civics/government>
  * Housing <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/streetscape/housing>
  * Waste & recycling <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/green/waste-recycling>
  * Wealth & poverty
    <http://sfpublicpress.org/category/topics/econ/wealth-poverty>
  * Land use <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/streetscape/land-use>
  * Streetscape <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/streetscape>
  * Economy <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/economy>
  * San Francisco <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/san-francisco>
  * The Cost of Living Here
    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/special-reports/the-cost-of-living-here>
  * Homelessness <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/homelessness>
  * Housing Solutions
    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/special-reports/housing-solutions>
  * Workforce Development <http://sfpublicpress.org/workforce>

  *
  * Printer-friendly versionPrinter-friendly version
    <http://sfpublicpress.org/print/news/2016-06/homeless-lose-economic-opportunity-as-goodwill-flagship-store-closes>

<http://sfpublicpress.org/files/news/goodwill_bins.jpg>

The Goodwill’s “As-Is” warehouse on Mission Street was the only place in
San Francisco to buy used goods by weight, and was a key resource for
low-income and homeless residents. Photo by Noah Arroyo / San Francisco
Public Press


    More Homelessness Coverage

The Public Press is participating in a weeklong collaboration among
dozens of news organizations focusing on solutions to homelessness. Read
more on Twitter <https://twitter.com/bayareahomeless> and Facebook
<https://www.facebook.com/sfhomelessproject>.

How Media Coverage on Homelessness Falls Short (And What Reporters Can
Do About It)
<http://sfpublicpress.org/news/2016-06/how-media-coverage-on-homelessness-falls-short-and-what-reporters-can-do-about-it> 
|  June 22, 2016 

Change of Address: Voices Humanize Homelessness
<http://sfpublicpress.org/news/2016-06/change-of-address-portraying-homelessness-with-humanity> 
|  June 29, 2016

Homeless Lose Economic Opportunity as Goodwill Flagship Store Closes
<http://sfpublicpress.org/news/2016-06/homeless-bid-goodwill-flagship-goodbye> 
|  June 29, 2016


    Previous Homelessness Reporting From the Public Press

The fall 2014 cover story on homelessness
<http://sfpublicpress.org/homelessness> examines in detail the
challenges of wrangling a social service bureaucracy split between the
city's health and human services agencies, with articles and
infographics. Other articles explore evictions from supportive housing
programs, the transformation of the jail into the city’s biggest mental
health facility, a special court meant to prevent that, and a graphic
novel story depicting holes in the social safety net.  |
 http://sfpublicpress.org/homelessness


    See Also:

Public Press Executive Director Michael Stoll discusses media coverage
of homelessness on “Your Call” on KALW-FM
<http://kalw.org/post/your-call-media-coverage-homelessness#stream/0>  |
 May 19, 2016


    About the Author

Hye-Jin Kim's picture <http://sfpublicpress.org/members/hye-jin-kim>
Hye-Jin Kim <http://sfpublicpress.org/members/hye-jin-kim>

Hye-Jin Kim is an editorial intern for the Public Press. She is an
anthropology major at Middlebury College and a features editor for The
Middlebury Campus. She has also reported for the West Windsor-Plainsboro
News in New Jersey.


    Latest news

  *
    Major S.F. Bayfront Developments Advance Despite Sea Rise Warnings

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/searise/2015-07/major-sf-bayfront-developments-advance-despite-sea-rise-warnings>

  *
    Mission Bay Pioneers: Working and Living in a New Waterfront
    Neighborhood

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/searise/2015-07/mission-bay-pioneers>
  *
    Four Ways to Guard Against Sea Level Rise

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/searise/2015-07/four-ways-to-guard-against-sea-level-rise>

  *
    Bay Area Governments Study Sea Level Rise, but Few Set Limits on
    Development

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/searise/2015-07/bay-area-governments-study-sea-level-rise-but-few-set-limits-on-development>

  *
    With Dozens of Local and Regional Governments, Baywide Planning Is Hard

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/searise/2015-07/with-dozens-of-local-and-regional-governments-baywide-planning-is-hard>

  *
    Experts Weigh In on Sea Level Rise

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/searise/2015-07/experts-weigh-in-on-sea-level-rise>


Search this site:

HOME <http://sfpublicpress.org/> | ABOUT
<http://sfpublicpress.org/about> | BLOG <http://sfpublicpress.org/blog>
| INTERNSHIPS <http://sfpublicpress.org/internships> | CONTACT US
<http://sfpublicpress.org/contact>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

44 Page St.
<https://maps.google.com/maps?oe=utf-8&q=44+page+street+san+francisco&ie=UTF-8&hq=&hnear=0x8085809f04850561:0xe6748c1bddec79a0,44+Page+St,+San+Francisco,+CA+94102&gl=us&ei=WH3UUJqsNsXF0AGL9ICgDw&ved=0CDcQ8gEwAQ> Suite
504, San Francisco, CA 94102  |  (415) 495-7377

The San Francisco Public Press is a 501(c)3 nonprofit
organization. Donations <http://sfpublicpress.org/donate> are tax
deductible to the extent allowed by law. We have received funding from
national and local foundations and more than 500 individuals.

     <http://fij.org/>     
<http://inn.org/> <http://www.knightfoundation.org/>     <http://sff.org/>

