<http://invest.berkeleyside.com/>

  * Home <http://berkeleyside.com/>

<http://www.facebook.com/berkeleyside>

<http://twitter.com/berkeleyside>

<http://www.flickr.com/groups/berkeleyside/>

<http://feeds.feedburner.com/berkeleyside/XGaT>
		 

	
powered by
	

  *

Yellow tags marked the location of evidence at the 2010 shooting scene.
Photo: Frances Dinkelspiel
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/12/07/convicted-killer-sentenced-to-118-years-to-life-after-berkeley-shooting/>

Convicted killer sentenced to 118 years to life
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/12/07/convicted-killer-sentenced-to-118-years-to-life-after-berkeley-shooting/>

German School
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/12/07/future-uncertain-for-berkeley-school-due-to-unsafe-building/>

Future uncertain for Berkeley school due to unsafe building
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/12/07/future-uncertain-for-berkeley-school-due-to-unsafe-building/>

Photo: Courtesy of Ben Gould
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/12/07/ben-gould-enters-campaign-for-district-4-council-seat/>

Ben Gould enters campaign for District 4 council seat
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/12/07/ben-gould-enters-campaign-for-district-4-council-seat/>



  <http://www.berkeleyside.com/>

Skip to content

<#content>

  * NOSH

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/nosh/>
  * All the News

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/all-the-news/>
  * Events

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/events-calendar/#/94703-berkeley/all/today>
  * Op-Eds

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/category/opinionator/>
  * Obituaries

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/category/obituaries/>
  * About

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/about-berkeleyside/>
  * Advertise

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/advertise/>
  * Support us

    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/support-us-by-becoming-a-member/>
  * Invest

    <https://invest.berkeleyside.com/>

Get Berkeleyside's Daily Briefing email

Community <http://www.berkeleyside.com/category/community-2/>


  Homelessness in Berkeley: An overview

June 29, 2016 8:00 am by Frances Dinkelspiel
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/author/frances/>	
Shattuck

University Avenue and Oxford: For more than 25 years, people without
permanent housing have panhandled on the street.

It was such a novel idea that newspapers around the country wrote about it.

To help cut down on panhandling, Berkeley merchants would sell 25-cent
vouchers in packets of four to customers, who could then hand them out
to the homeless. This “comprehensive” strategy, said the Los Angeles
Times
<http://articles.latimes.com/1991-05-07/news/mn-1306_1_voucher-program>,
would let the homeless people who hung out on Shattuck and Telegraph
avenues use the vouchers for bus fare, food, to take a shower or do
laundry. With an estimated 800 people without permanent housing in town,
merchants sold $1,900 worth of “Berkeley Cares” vouchers in just a few
months.

“By all accounts Berkeley’s street people are already eating and even
smelling better, and those desperate for hard currency to finance a drug
habit are drifting elsewhere,” reported the New York Times
<http://articles.philly.com/1991-10-04/news/25816285_1_voucher-system-panhandlers-mayor-loni-hancock>.

The year: 2016?

No, it was 1991.

*See full coverage on Berkeleyside of the Berkeley Homeless Project
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-homeless-project/>.*

It’s been 25 years since the failure of “Berkeley Cares.” In that time,
Berkeley has tried numerous ways to reduce the number of homeless people
on the streets and minimize their impact on luckier citizens who may be
dismayed by seeing men and women walking around or sitting on sidewalks
with shopping carts full of stuff.

(From left to right) Downtown Berkeley Associatoin CEO John Caner, Vice
Mayor Linda Maio, Berkeley Food & Housing Project Executive Director
Terrie Light, and City Councilman Jesse Arreguin pose before making the
first donations to the Positive Change box. Photo: Seung Y. Lee

In May 2015, business leaders and city officials kicked off the
“Positive Change” program to encourage donations in locked boxes to help
pay for social services. It didn’t take long before there were reports
of vandalized boxes and questions about the effort’s success. Photo:
Seung Y. Lee

The city has used carrots to help the homeless, like “Berkeley Cares”
and the “Positive Change” program, which put donation boxes around
downtown
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2015/05/08/berkeley-launches-donation-boxes-for-homeless-people/>
in May 2015. It has tolerated short-term experiments where those without
homes police themselves, like 1985’s Rainbow Village, a car encampment
by the Marina (which was closed after two occupants were murdered), and
2015’s Liberty City <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/liberty-city/>, a
cluster of tents outside Old City Hall.

Berkeley has also used sticks to get homeless off the streets. In 1994,
the City Council outlawed lying on sidewalks, a decision endorsed by
voters as Measure O. A council elected after that tossed out the rule
when faced with a lawsuit by the ACLU. In 2007, there was another
measure called the “Public Commons for Everyone Initiative.” It forbade
lying on the sidewalk but pledged extra money for services.

In 2012, the council placed Measure S
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/2012-measure-s/>, which would have
banned sitting on sidewalks in commercial districts from 7 a.m. to 10
p.m., on the ballot. It failed
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2012/11/06/berkeleys-election-night-live-blogging/>.
Last November, in what some critics called “Measure S 2.0,” a council
majority voted in favor of stringent rules about how much sidewalk space
anyone could use
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2015/11/18/berkeley-imposes-new-laws-on-homeless-behavior/>,
among other laws. (Those rules won’t go into effect
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2015/07/01/berkeley-council-postpones-street-behavior-proposal/>,
however, until the city provides storage facilities for the homeless
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/02/29/huge-price-tag-projected-for-berkeley-homeless-storage-bin-program/>.)

Critics call those regulations — which can result in tickets and fines
— “criminalizing the homeless.” Supporters believe they are only asking
people who live on the streets to abide by widely accepted social norms
that make public space accessible to everyone.

A police officer speaks with a "family" of homeless youth in Berkeley in
2013. Photo: Ted Friedman

A police officer speaks with a “family” of homeless youth in Berkeley in
2013. Photo: Ted Friedman

Despite the myriad approaches, the homeless situation has not gotten
better. Numerous “travelers” crowd the sidewalks of Telegraph Avenue.
There are encampments of homeless at Willard Park and Ohlone Park
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2015/10/26/ohlone-park-neighbors-brainstorm-about-homeless-influx/>, and
many other city parks. The people living in their cars, vans and campers
play a game of musical chairs with the police. They have gone from
Harrison Street to Fourth Street to Second Street to the Marina. And the
encampment by the Gilman Street underpass
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/16/authorities-clear-out-gilman-homeless-camp/>
and the frontage road nearby seems permanent.

It’s a “growing problem,” said Councilman Jesse Arreguín
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/jesse-arreguin/>, who headed up a task
force that took a deep dive into the city’s homeless issues
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2013/08/14/new-talks-on-homelessness-in-berkeley-start-thursday/>.
“Just look on the street, throughout the entire city. It’s not just the
downtown and Telegraph. We are seeing encampments in the parks. We’re
seeing people camping out in West Berkeley. There is an ongoing
encampment under the Gilman underpass. It’s a very tragic situation.”

Every year, Berkeley gives about $3 million to homeless services
providers. And some of that money has had an effect. A recent report on
Berkeley’s homeless population
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/2016-01-26-Item-21-Berkeley-2015-Homeless.pdf>
showed that the estimated number of veterans living on the streets had
declined by 40% over six years, from 130 to 78. In just five months, the
city’s new streamlined service center to address homelessness
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/berkeley-seeks-to-house-those-most-in-need-at-the-hub/>
has gotten housing or housing vouchers for 17 people.

Yet the number of homeless in Berkeley keeps growing, despite the
outpouring of funds and the hard work of numerous service providers like
Berkeley Food & Housing Project, Building Opportunities for
Self-Sufficiency, Youth Spirit Artworks, the Berkeley Community Law
Center, YEAH!, and many other organizations. A count performed on Jan.
28, 2015, found that there were an estimated 834 homeless people in
Berkeley, a 23% increase over the last count in 2009
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/2016-01-26-Item-21-Berkeley-2015-Homeless.pdf>.
And a subset of that figure — those who are living on the streets or in
other places not designed for habitation — grew 59% since 2009, up to
568 people. Most of these are older men, both white and African
American, and single.

“It’s our own modern-day “Grapes of Wrath,” said Councilwoman Linda Maio
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/linda-maio/>, referring to the 1939
John Steinbeck novel about people who leave Oklahoma looking for a
better life and spend time wandering from place to place.

People hanging out on Telegraph Avenue in 2011. Photo: Nancy Rubin

People hanging out on Telegraph Avenue in 2011. Photo: Nancy Rubin

Of course, the biggest issue is housing. There just isn’t enough of it,
especially affordable housing. With median apartment rents at $3,526,
there is no way any homeless person, even one who gets a maximum amount
of Social Security for their disabilities, can afford that. People with
Section 8 vouchers, which are supposed to let them find low-cost
housing, are out of luck. Many landlords who used to rent to that
population have stopped because they can get so much more money from
market rents. Even living in one of Berkeley’s single room occupancy
hotels is expensive.

“There just isn’t any housing,” said Osha Neumann, an attorney with the
East Bay Community Law Center who frequently represents the homeless in
court. “The problem with homelessness is that there just aren’t any homes.”

Until recently, Berkeley did not prioritize getting homeless people into
permanent housing but focused most of its resources in setting them up
in temporary shelters
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Berkeley-Final-CAS-Report-Submitted-090514.pdf>.
An agency hired by Berkeley, Focus Strategies, analyzed the city’s
homeless programs in September 2014 and concluded that Berkeley only
funneled 9% of the $3 million it spent annually toward permanent
housing. Another 10% went toward rapid re-housing and prevention. (That
means, essentially, preventing people from losing their housing due to
disputes with roommates, short-term lack of cash, etc.) The bulk of the
money, 57%, went to drop-in centers and shelters and another 19% to
things like help in finding employment, benefits advocacy, and alcohol
and drug services.

Focus Strategies also pointed out that Berkeley had a fragmented and
overly complex intake system
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2014/10/01/streamlined-housing-crisis-center-slated-for-berkeley/>
with multiple entry points that was not only confusing but difficult to
navigate and time-consuming.

Earlier this year, Berkeley overhauled its approach to providing
homeless services with a shift toward a “Housing First” policy for those
who demonstrate the highest need. First getting homeless people into
supportive housing — permanent housing with social services on-site — is
cheaper than tackling issues such as medical problems and addiction
while people are on the streets, experts say. Once they have a secure
home, they can focus on long-term issues.

“People are happier if they are housed — avoiding, among other things,
the elements and having possessions stolen,” said Matthai Chakko, a city
of Berkeley spokesman. “Living on the streets can mean living in crisis.
Part of the housing first policy means placing people into housing even
when their lives aren’t perfect. There are a number of resources that
help people get supportive care once they’re in housing. Those include
support for drug or alcohol dependency, mental illness, and other
disabilities. If you wait for people to get into the perfect condition
before getting them into housing, it doesn’t work.”

“With limited resources, efforts are put toward putting people into
housing rather than into services such as garbage or portable restrooms
for encampments,” he said. “In terms of delivering services, it’s the
smartest and best use of money.”

Intervention on Telegraph Avenue on June 26, 2016. Photo: Ted Friedman

Intervention on Telegraph Avenue on June 26, 2016. Photo: Ted Friedman

In January, the city opened The Hub
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/berkeley-seeks-to-house-those-most-in-need-at-the-hub/>,
run by Berkeley Food & Housing Project, at 1901 Fairview St. It is now
the central entry point for homeless people looking for services.
Previously, those without housing could go to a number of shelters and
outreach programs for help. By centralizing the intake process, Berkeley
hopes to gain a better understanding of the homeless population. The
priority is to get housing fast to those who need it most
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/berkeley-seeks-to-house-those-most-in-need-at-the-hub/>.

Council also directed the city manager in April to analyze Berkeley’s
approach to homelessness. Staff is already connecting with other cities
to add a regional perspective to the crisis, said Arreguín.

“Taking a step back and looking at the big picture and developing a
comprehensive plan is really needed,” said Arreguín.


      *Who are the homeless?*

Mike Lee <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/mike-lee/>, a homeless man who
is running for mayor, put Berkeley’s homeless population into four
categories: 1) the tweakers (those who use methamphetamine), and other
substance abusers; 2) those with mental health issues; 3) the working
poor, those who earn minimum wage and have to sleep in a car or on the
street; 4) the elderly. Other suggest another category might be the
“travelers,” people who move from city to city following concerts and
gatherings. These are usually fairly young people.

Interviews with a number of homeless people living around the Gilman
Street underpass show how daunting the task is to transition them to
housing. Many of those interviewed by Berkeleyside said they use meth
and other drugs to cope. They make their living by walking around town
scavenging, or by panhandling. They value their independence. While they
want housing, they do not like that they have to relinquish their
freedom when they go to a shelter, they said.

“I like being outdoors, I like not paying rent,” one man, who lives at
the Gilman underpass, said last week. He would not give his name.

“Shelters are like jails,” said another man, who also declined to
identify himself.

A man living under the Gilman underpass last week. Photo: Frances
Dinkelspiel

A man living under the Gilman underpass last week. Photo: Frances
Dinkelspiel

“I like to go to sleep when I feel like it, not when I am supposed to,”
said Thomas Barnett, 55, who has been in Berkeley for 18 years and was
living near the Gilman underpass last week.

Explained Neumann, the homeless advocate: “There are people who have
simply been on the street for so long they have a claustrophobia when
they go inside.”

Plus, some of them like to get high, which is not permitted in the
traditional shelter system.

“We are left to our own devices, we have a lot of vices,” said one man,
who declined to give his name. “I recycle, get intoxicated, and draw
until I figure something else out.”

Others complained about the long waits involved. One man eating a lunch
of scrambled eggs and biscuits and gravy at Au Coquelet restaurant on
University Avenue recently said it can take three hours to get a shower
at the Homeless Drop-In Center on Center Street, an observation Mike Lee
agreed with.

Another issue is that shelters, as well as places like SRO hotels, often
don’t allow people to bring dogs or bulky possessions. And the people
who earn money by scavenging have a lot of stuff. Barnett had piles of
bike rims and other bike parts piled up in two different spots on the
frontage road near I-80 the other day.

“Berkeley Food & Housing is not going to find me enough space,” said
Barnett. “I need a workshop.”

Theft is rampant, so many homeless people gather their belongings
together and appoint one person to stay by it all day so it won’t be
stolen. The watcher is paid in food.

Council members recognize that having a lot of stuff presents an issue
for those without homes, which is one reason they decided in November to
build around 50 storage bins for the homeless
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/02/29/huge-price-tag-projected-for-berkeley-homeless-storage-bin-program/>
in the back of Veterans Building on Center Street.

Many homeless people are advocating for Berkeley to set aside vacant
lots where they can legally put up tents and live on their own terms.
Other cities have had some success with this plan, like Dignity Village
in Portland. When a group of people established a tent city outside Old
City Hall last November <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/liberty-city/>,
they self-policed the population to drive away the drug users,
prostitutes, and troublemakers, they said. No drinking was allowed.

“What I want to do is show the city that the homeless can be responsible
for themselves
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2015/11/25/berkeley-orders-new-homeless-tent-city-to-disband/>
and act appropriately,” Mike Zint, one of the spokesmen for Liberty City
said in November.

Maio said the city is exploring allowing those without housing to set up
tents in a kind of semi-permanent situation. She declined to say more
because it’s early in the process. The trick is finding a large enough
space that isn’t too isolated and is close to public transit, she said.

Man in People's Park on June 27, 2009. Photo by Danny Howard/Creative
Commons

Man in People’s Park on June 27, 2009. Photo by Danny Howard/Creative
Commons
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/dannyman/766771998/in/photolist-7wkjym-8S3JsZ-69ML3d-hXmMg7-Jf58E-69hZzR-hXmwod-nbTtEZ-bph86G-bCgAk6-69vHRy-fVjyps-dzNtLh-7u3jjP-8Lk8Uk-hXmLw1-dimhSx-cZs6Fu-78J8Rt-2aKUAS-bph81b-eVRf-hXmMGs-ehMjFb-7neywM-ECyqKc-y5tb3c-8L3L5n-6a4UYa-69vjdo-2yzXue-JcCkP-7d4y8v-7BFDM7-6Lk4wo-6a96c9-eVWL-3wh5e-3UK7H-6aDkCD-t4rV-6zTDv8-zXSLwQ-dnkTne-3PLFYQ-dopNdz-zWbRAr-pTmdvb-xDwZhu-TxKZB>

One huge issue is how to allow people who are capable of self-regulating
to participate while excluding those who are mentally ill or have
criminal intentions, said Maio. Mental illness is a huge problem in the
homeless population and it’s very difficult to deliver services to
people who may be hearing voices or feeling paranoid.

Current laws only allow people who are about to harm themselves or
others to be committed to mental health facilities. Many mentally ill
people in crisis refuse services, which is completely legal. Berkeley
police estimate that at least 35% of the calls they respond to involve
someone on the street with a mental illness
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2015/04/16/mental-health-calls-are-1-drain-on-berkeley-police-resources/>. Responding
to those kinds of calls is the #1 drain on their resources, police said.

The city would have to be deeply involved in any sort of sanctioned
encampment, Maio said. If not, chaos could ensue. When Caltrans
officials, the CHP, and Berkeley city workers cleaned out the encampment
by the Gilman Street overpass earlier this month, they found human
feces, bottles of urine, 250 used hypodermic needles, rotting food and
dead rodents
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/16/authorities-clear-out-gilman-homeless-camp/>.
It was a health and safety hazard.

Neumann, the attorney, said that, in many ways, that filth is Berkeley’s
fault. Under city laws, it is illegal to sleep outside, it is illegal to
be homeless, he said. Because of this emphasis on illegality, Berkeley
doesn’t do commonsense things that could reduce the squalor, he said.

Neumann believes Berkeley should take some “harm reduction” steps like
putting in porta potties near the Gilman underpass so people have a
place to go to the bathroom. (The nearest one is a short walk away at
the soccer fields but is so overused that it can be disgusting,
according to one homeless man.) Berkeley could put some dumpsters and
needle containers nearby, too, Neumann said.

Maio said that is not a viable solution.

“We do not want to institutionalize an unhealthy, unsafe environment,”
she said. “I understand people might want that, but that’s not an
answer. It’s really unsafe, the traffic is spinning around all the time.
That’s not an option for us. It’s not a good place for people to be. We
have to find other solutions.”


      *Some relief in sight*

Despite the seeming intractability of the issue, there are some positive
developments that may partially ameliorate the situation. The Alameda
County Board of Supervisors voted Tuesday night to place a $580 million
affordable housing bond on the November ballot
<http://www.mercurynews.com/breaking-news/ci_30067748/alameda-county-affordable-housing-bond-measure-put-november>,
according to the Mercury News. Voters in Santa Clara County will also be
asked to approve a $950 million bond for affordable housing in November.

The Berkeley City Council recently placed a proposed increase on
business license taxes on the November ballot, which could send $5
million a year into the General Fund. Council did that with the
intention of using some of the money for housing, said Arreguín. The
Berkeley Property Owners’ Association has a similar measure on the
ballot, one with a lower tax rate that would generate less money.

If the increased business license tax passes, the city might use some of
the money to create a new program that pays for first and last month’s
rent, plus the security deposit, for groups of two or three homeless
people who agree to pool their resources and live together, said Maio.
The city is urging social service workers to look for apartments that
might be appropriate, she said,

Berkeley is also on track to build a 94-unit housing complex on Berkeley
Way
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2013/09/11/berkeley-considers-visionary-homeless-housing-project/>
near Shattuck Avenue that would provide housing, along with emergency
shelter and supportive services, to the homeless. It’s the kind of
innovative wrap-around approach homeless advocates have been pushing for.

Lee and others have been advocating for the construction of “tiny
houses,” where homeless people can stay for very low rent. The Berkeley
Rotary Club recently donated $2,500 to build one of these houses in a
demonstration project in early August. Councilman Laurie Capitelli is
also an advocate of the idea and there appears to be some sentiment on
the council to allow a tiny house settlement, too, although one with
lots city presence.

*Related:*
Gilman Street underpass: For many, the poster child of Berkeley homeless
camps
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/gilman-street-underpass-for-many-the-poster-child-of-berkeley-homeless-camps/> (06.29.16)
Would a homeless mayor in Berkeley make a difference for the homeless?
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/would-a-homeless-mayor-in-berkeley-make-a-difference-for-the-homeless/> (06.29.16)
Homelessness in Berkeley: The fact sheet
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/homelessness-in-berkeley-the-fact-sheet/> (06.29.16)*
*Berkeley mayoral hopefuls weigh in on homelessness
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/berkeley-mayoral-hopefuls-weigh-in-on-homelessness/> (06.29.16)*
*Photos: Living on the streets of Berkeley
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/photos-living-on-the-streets-of-berkeley/> (06.29.16)
Berkeley seeks to house those most in need at The Hub
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/berkeley-seeks-to-house-those-most-in-need-at-the-hub/> (06.29.16)
Berkeley homelessness: A timeline from 1982 to 2016
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/berkeley-homelessness-a-timeline-from-1982-to-2016/> (06.29.16)
Berkeleyside will focus on homelessness Wednesday
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/28/berkeleyside-along-with-70-media-outlets-will-focus-on-homelessness-wednesday/> (06.28.19)
Share your questions about homelessness in Berkeley
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/21/share-your-questions-about-homelessness-in-berkeley/> (06.21.16)

/Berkeleyside will publish stories on homelessness throughout the day
Wednesday
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/28/berkeleyside-along-with-70-media-outlets-will-focus-on-homelessness-wednesday/>.
Check back for continuing coverage. Want to share your thoughts on
homelessness to help shape future coverage? Weigh in here
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/21/share-your-questions-about-homelessness-in-berkeley/>./

*SFHomeless_long_thumbSee full coverage on Berkeleyside of the Berkeley
Homeless Project
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-homeless-project/>. Read more
about homelessness in Berkeley
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-homelessness/>. This story is
part of the Bay Area-wide initiative to document homeless issues. This
endeavor, The San Francisco Homeless Project
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/>, includes 70 media organizations.
Connect with the project on Facebook
<http://facebook.com/sfhomelessproject> and Twitter
<http://twitter.com/bayareahomeless>.*

51 Comments
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/homelessness-in-berkeley-an-overview/#disqus_thread>

Email
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/homelessness-in-berkeley-an-overview/email/> Email
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/homelessness-in-berkeley-an-overview/email/>

Print Friendly <#>
Tagged Berkeley Homeless Project
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-homeless-project/>, Berkeley
homelessness <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-homelessness/>,
Jesse Arreguin <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/jesse-arreguin/>, Linda
Maio <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/linda-maio/>, Mike Lee
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/mike-lee/>, SF Homeless Project
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/sf-homeless-project/>, SFHP
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/sfhp/>

« The Nosh Wire: 6.28.16
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/28/the-nosh-wire-6-28-16/>
Berkeley homelessness: A timeline from 1982 to 2016 »
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/berkeley-homelessness-a-timeline-from-1982-to-2016/>
Please keep our community civil. Comments should remain on topic and be
respectful.
Read our full comments policy »
<http://www.berkeleyside.com/comments-policy/>

  *

     
  *

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
  *
     

  *


          Categories

    Categories

  *


          Tags

    Alameda County district attorney's office
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/alameda-county-district-attorneys-office/>
    Berkeley business news
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-business-news/> Berkeley
    City Council
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-city-council/> Berkeley
    crime <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-crime/> Berkeley
    dining <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-dining/> Berkeley
    elections <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-elections/>
    Berkeley Fire Department
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-fire-department/> Berkeley
    High School <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-high-school/>
    Berkeley music <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-music/>
    Berkeley Police <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-police/>
    Berkeley politics
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-politics/> Berkeley real
    estate <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-real-estate/>
    Berkeley robberies
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-robberies/> Berkeley
    schools <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-schools/> Berkeley
    Unified School District
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-unified-school-district/>
    Berkeley urban planning
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-urban-planning/> Berkeley
    Wire <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-wire/> Best of
    Berkeleyside <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/best-of-berkeleyside/>
    Big Screen Berkeley
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/big-screen-berkeley/> Bites: What’s
    new in East Bay food
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/bites-whats-new-in-east-bay-food/>
    Books <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/books/> Downtown Berkeley
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/downtown-berkeley/> Guns in
    Berkeley <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/guns-in-berkeley/>
    Homicide in Berkeley
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/berkeley-homicide/> Housing in
    Berkeley <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/housing-in-berkeley/>
    Jennifer Coats <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/jennifer-coats/>
    Jesse Arreguin <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/jesse-arreguin/>
    Mayor Tom Bates <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/mayor-tom-bates/>
    Movies <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/movies/> North Berkeley
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/north-berkeley/> Nosh Wire
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/nosh-wire/> Oakland dining
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/oakland-dining/> Public safety
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/public-safety/> Recent crime in
    Berkeley <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/recent-crime-in-berkeley/>
    Shattuck Avenue <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/shattuck-avenue/>
    Shootings in Berkeley
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/shootings-in-berkeley/> Shop Talk
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/shop-talk/> South Berkeley
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/south-berkeley/> Telegraph Avenue
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/telegraph-avenue/> Theater in
    Berkeley <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/theater-in-berkeley/> UC
    Berkeley <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/uc-berkeley/> University
    of California Police Department
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/university-of-california-police-department/>
    West Berkeley <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/west-berkeley/> What
    to do in Berkeley this weekend
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/what-to-do-in-berkeley-this-weekend/>
    Where in Berkeley? <http://www.berkeleyside.com/tag/where-in-berkeley/>

  *


          Archives

    June 2016 M 	T 	W 	T 	F 	S 	S
    « May <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/05/> 	  	Jul »
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/07/>
     	1 <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/01/>	2
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/02/>	3
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/03/>	4	5
    6 <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/06/>	7
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/07/>	8
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/08/>	9
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/09/>	10
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/10/>	11	12
    13 <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/13/>	14
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/14/>	15
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/15/>	16
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/16/>	17
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/17/>	18	19
    20 <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/20/>	21
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/21/>	22
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/22/>	23
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/23/>	24
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/24/>	25
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/25/>	26
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/26/>
    27 <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/27/>	28
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/28/>	29
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/29/>	30
    <http://www.berkeleyside.com/2016/06/30/> 	 

  *


          Site info

      o Log in <https://www.berkeleyside.com/wp-login.php>
      o Entries RSS <http://www.berkeleyside.com/feed/>
      o Comments RSS <http://www.berkeleyside.com/comments/feed/>
      o WordPress.org <https://wordpress.org/>

© 2016 *Berkeleyside* All Rights Reserved. | Design by Doug Ng
<http://design-ng.com/>

<http://invest.berkeleyside.com/>
Search ResultsClose
Custom Search

Web
 
 
 
	

	
