New America Media <http://newamericamedia.org/>
|   Top Stories
 

  * RSS

    <http://newamericamedia.org/feeds.php>
  * | NETWORK <http://newamericamedia.org/network/> |
  * | SERVICES <http://static-1.namx.org/services/HTML/index.html>
  * | POLLS <http://newamericamedia.org/sections/polls/>
  * | EVENTS <http://newamericamedia.org/sections/events/>
  * | ABOUT US <http://newamericamedia.org/about/>
  * | NEWSLETTER SIGN UP <http://newamericamedia.org/nam-newsletters.php>
  * HOME <http://newamericamedia.org/>

Browse by:

African

African American

Asian

Caribbean

European

Indigenous

Intersections

Latino

Middle Eastern

Multi-ethnic

South Asian

Today is: Nov 15, 2016

	
× <javascript:void(0)>

		 

	
powered by
	

Custom Search

Web
 
 
 
	

  * Arts & Entertainment

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/arts-entertainment/>
  * Collaborative Reporting

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/collaborative-reporting/>
  * Economy

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/economy/>
  * Education

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/education/>
  * Elders

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/elders/>
  * Environment

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/environment/>
  * Ethnic Media Headlines

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/ethnic-media-headlines/>
  * Ethnic Media Network

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/ethnic-media-network/>
  * Gender & Sexuality

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/gender-sexuality/>
  * Growing Older, Getting Poorer

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/growing-old-growing-poor/>
  * Health

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/health/>
  * Health Care Reform

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/health-care-reform/>
  * Immigration

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/immigration/>
  * International Affairs

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/international-affairs/>
  * NAM en Español

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/nam-en-espanol/>
  * Original NAM Content

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/original-nam-content/>
  * Palliative & Hospice Care

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/palliative-hospice-care/>
  * Politics & Governance

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/politics-governance/>
  * Religion

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/religion/>
  * Science & Technology

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/science-and-technology/>
  * Small Business

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/small-business/>
  * Sports

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/sports/>
  * The Movement to Expand Health Care Access

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/the-movement-to-expand-healthcare-access/>
  * Youth Culture

    <http://newamericamedia.org/news/youth/>
  * Multimedia

    <#>
      o Audio

        <http://newamericamedia.org/multimedia/audio/>
      o Photo Galleries

        <http://newamericamedia.org/multimedia/photo-galleries/>
      o Video

        <http://newamericamedia.org/multimedia/video/>
  * All Stories

    <http://newamericamedia.org/archives.php>


      Homeless But at Home in San Francisco
      <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/06/homeless-but-at-home-in-san-francisco.php>

Homeless But at Home in San Francisco <#>


    *Story* tools

Comments <#comments>

A

<#> A

<#> A

<#>Resize

Print <#>

Share and Email <#>

 

New America Media <http://www.newamericamedia.org/>, Profile, Anna
Challet, Posted: Jun 27, 2016


/Photo: Darnell Boyd (left) graduates from a leadership development
program at Hospitality House in San Francisco, led by Joe Wilson (right). /

/EDITOR’S NOTE: This story is part of The San Francisco Chronicle’s SF
Homeless Project <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/>./

To the average observer, San Francisco’s homeless population might look
chaotic, a sign of the widening cracks in the city’s façade. But Darnell
Boyd, adrift for years and now living in a shelter in the South of
Market neighborhood, not only finds structure in the chaos, but also
builds it for the people around him.

Hanging out in front of the main library recently, he saw that another
homeless man was having a mental health crisis. Boyd talked the man into
coming with him to Hospitality House, a drop-in service center a few
blocks away, and remained with him and tried to keep him calm until the
police finally had to be called.

“There was definitely a time in my life when I wouldn’t have looked
twice at him,” Boyd says. But now, here, he’s come to see people
differently.

He’s 55 and has been homeless for about ten years, in cities all over
the country – Phoenix, Orlando, D.C., Denver.

He’s one of many people in San Francisco’s aging homeless population who
won’t qualify for much (if any) Social Security income when they turn
65, because their history of formal employment has been inconsistent and
confined to low-wage work.

Boyd is also an African American man living in a city that has lost most
of its black residents. It’s one thing to be a black man in a city where
less than 5 percent of the population is black, and another to be black
in that city and not have a home.

And yet this is where he would like to stay. Over the decade that he’s
been moving around the country, he’s lived in San Francisco off and on,
and he keeps coming back.

Born in Chicago, he grew up on the South Side with four siblings. His
mother died of a heart attack in 1969, when she was 29. He was 8.

“When my mom died, everything fell apart,” he says. “My father turned
into this monster. In the years after she died, we went through the most
vicious, ruthless stuff I’ve ever seen in my life.”

He says that his father, a Korean War veteran, was a gambler, and that
he and his four siblings spent most of their time on the streets.
“Social services didn’t come around then,” he says. The family went to
church, but one of his most vivid memories is of a preacher making fun
of him and his brother because they weren’t wearing nicer church
clothes. “We were wearing winter clothes in the summer to hide that we
were getting whipped with an electrical cord,” he says.

Things were bad outside the house, too. “You never knew when you were
going to get jumped,” he says. Gangs were recruiting at high schools. He
remembers getting beaten severely at a rec center when he was a
teenager, in a dispute over a ping-pong game.

“Most people from Chicago in my generation, we didn’t have to plan for
our future,” he says. “You knew you were going to end up dead, or in
Cook County Jail or the state penitentiary.” He’s been told by a
therapist that he has post-traumatic stress disorder, and he’s struggled
with alcoholism and has burned bridges with family.

Today he has children from past relationships and is behind on his child
support payments, which he regrets. His relationship with work has been
fraught since he was young. When he was a kid he’d wanted to become a
journalist but he didn’t know how. He tried to go into the Navy but only
stayed through boot camp. “I got in there and I was fighting just as
hard as I was on the streets,” he says. “My mind was messed up.”

It was the same at subsequent jobs he had through the years, mostly
working as a security guard. The last time he had a steady job was when
he was working at McDonalds when he was in his forties.

“Now I’m so used to being out in the streets. I’m too far gone,” he says.

He stopped drinking last year, when he was living in San Diego. “I
started running and it sweat the alcohol out of my system,” he says. He
hasn’t done much running since arriving back in San Francisco in
December. “Here I run and people start clutching their purses.
Somebody’s going to have a heart attack if I run here!”

He says that being poor and black is different from being poor in other
communities. “We’re not like the immigrant community. The immigrant
community is close-knit. With us it’s every man for himself,” he says.

And yet it’s community that’s keeping him in San Francisco. For him,
it’s become a place where people recognize him.

He’s got a small group of guys at the shelter who get together to argue
about current events. He makes a stop at the library almost every day to
read the New York Times, and he follows the black papers too – the San
Francisco Bay View, the L.A. Sentinel, the Washington Afro.

Over the years, he’s also become a fixture of groups that organize on
behalf of low-income people, like the Central City SRO Collaborative and
Hospitality House. “I join everything,” he says. “I don’t want to sit
around doing nothing.”

At organizing meetings throughout the Tenderloin, everybody knows his
name. If there’s a rally, or a budget hearing at City Hall, or a voter
registration drive, he shows up. He calls himself and the people he
organizes with “lobbyists for the broke.” He says that in San Francisco,
it feels like poor people have a voice, and he hasn’t gotten that
impression elsewhere.

He’d like to live in an SRO, but he’s no longer worried about how he’s
going to survive.

“At this point in my life, all I need is one room and a bed and a
dresser and a lamp,” he says. And, he might have added, the community
he’s building for himself and the people around him. “I’m just going to
continue looking out for other people around here.”
Edit This Entry
<http://publisher.namx.org/mt.cgi?__mode=view&_type=entry&id=15416&blog_id=19>


  * rss <http://newamericamedia.org/feeds/top-stories.xml>
  * Share and Email <#> |
  * Print <#> |

 


    *Comments*

California Youthwire
<http://ads.namx.org/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=727__zoneid=149__source=%7Bobfs%3A%7D__cb=843bc58eaa__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.youthwire.org%2F>
 


    *Related* Articles


          Trump Victory Alarms Vietnam
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/11/trump-victory-alarms-vietnam.php>

 The shock waves from Donald Trump’s victory are only just beginning to
reverberate around the…


          Duterte Slams Obama Anew: 'Find Out the Right Meaning of
          Dignity'
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/11/duterte-slams-obama-anew-find-out-the-right-meaning-of-dignity.php>

 PRESIDENT Rodrigo Duterte lashed out against U.S. President Barack
Obama once again after the United…


          The War on Drugs in the Philippines: A StepToward Fascism?
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/10/the-war-on-drugs-in-the-philippines-a-steptoward-fascism.php>

 On September 22, 1972, Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos declared
martial law in the Philippines, resulting…


          Duterte Declares Military, Economic Break with US
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/10/duterte-declares-military-economic-break-with-us.php>

 BEIJING — President Rodrigo Duterte announced that he is breaking both
in military and economic…


          Duterte's China Trip Puts US Ties To the Test
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/10/dutertes-china-trip-puts-us-ties-to-the-test.php>

 After lashing out at longtime ally America, the new Philippine
president is making a state…


          US Donates Military Equipment to The Philippines to Help
          Counterterrorism Efforts
          <http://newamericamedia.org/2016/10/us-donates-military-equipment-to-the-philippines-to-help-counterterrorism-efforts.php>

 THE United States has donated counterterrorism equipment to the
Philippine Marines on Friday, October 8,…

 
 
 
 
 
feelbetter
<http://ads.namx.org/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=781__zoneid=150__source=%7Bobfs%3A%7D__cb=8526de96cc__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Ffeelbetterca.org%2F>
 
<http://ads.namx.org/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=802__zoneid=187__source=%7Bobfs%3A%7D__cb=64695fd320__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Fnewamericamedia.org%2F2016%2F08%2Fan-untapped-natural-resource-our-national-public-lands-and-the-new-america.php>
 


  * Home <http://newamericamedia.org/>
  * |
  * About Us <http://newamericamedia.org/about/>
  * |
  * Services/Advertise <http://static-1.namx.org/services/HTML/index.html>
  * |
  * Network <http://newamericamedia.org/network/>
  * |
  * Writer's Guidelines <http://newamericamedia.org/writers-guidelines/>
  * |
  * Privacy Policy <http://newamericamedia.org/privacy-policy/>

New America Media, 209 9th Street, Suite 200, San Francisco, CA 94103

website security <#>
	
