/

/
// <https://www.facebook.com/48hills> // <https://twitter.com/48hills>
// <#>

  * News + Politics

    <http://48hills.org/news-politics/>
  * Arts + Culture

    <http://48hills.org/arts-culture/>
  * Music + Nightlife

    <http://48hills.org/music-nightlife/>
  * Politics <http://48hills.org/news-politics/>
  * Culture <http://48hills.org/arts-culture/>
  * Nightlife <http://48hills.org/music-nightlife/>
  * Search

    <http://48hills.org/search/>

// <#>
Search

Sponsored link
<http://48hills.org/linkout/17024>
// <#>
48 hills

<http://48hills.org/>

  * News + Politics

    <http://48hills.org/news-politics/>
  * Arts + Culture

    <http://48hills.org/arts-culture/>
  * Music + Nightlife

    <http://48hills.org/music-nightlife/>
  * Politics <http://48hills.org/news-politics/>
  * Culture <http://48hills.org/arts-culture/>
  * Nightlife <http://48hills.org/music-nightlife/>
  * Search

    <http://48hills.org/search/>

//

<#> // <#>

// <https://www.facebook.com/48hills> // <https://twitter.com/48hills>

  * Best of the Bay <http://48hills.org/sections/best-of-the-bay/>
  * Contact <http://48hills.org/contact/>
  * About <http://48hills.org/about/>
  * Newsletter <http://48hills.org/newsletter/>
  * Advertise With Us <http://48hills.org/advertise-with-us/>
  * Shop <http://48hills.org/store/>
  * Donate <http://48hills.org/support-donate/>

  * LOG IN

Welcome! Log into your account
Forgot your password? <#>
Recover your password
Home <http://48hills.org/> // News + Politics
<http://48hills.org/sections/news-politics/>

  * News + Politics <http://48hills.org/sections/news-politics/>


  Homelessness: the media’s big problem

The words and images we use matter; they create perceptions that drive
public policy

By Tim Redmond <http://48hills.org/author/tim/> -
Jun 29th

/[UPDATED: This story has been updated to reflect a correction in
Chronicle Editor Audrey Cooper’s experience with homeless people having
sex in a tent and her motivation for the homeless project.]/

 

These are some of the headlines we saw in the San Francisco Chronicle
this past year:

/“San Francisco’s summer of urine and drug-addicted homeless.”/

/“Amid rising disgust, SF scrambles to flush stench from streets.”/

/“Flood of homeless in tent camp just small part of problem.”/

/“Mayor Lee’s Superbowl homeless plan is a breath of fresh air.”/

There are others, less graphic:

/“Myths, like the homeless problem, not going away.”/

/“Homeless problem can’t be swept away.”/

This image of a menacing looking shirtless man with a shopping cart is
all too typical of images of homeless people. (Does he have a name?)
<http://i1.wp.com/48hills.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/48hillschronhomeless.jpg>
This image of a menacing looking shirtless man with a shopping cart is
all too typical of images of homeless people. (Does he have a name?).
Photo by Lea Suzuki, SF Chronicle

There have been some very good stories (by reporters like Heather
Knight) and some truly atrocious ones (by columnists C.W. Nevius and
Deborah Saunders).

But overall, the Chron coverage of homeless people over the past year –
until this week — has focused on problems way more than solutions, and
is littered with words like “drugs,” “Drug-addicted,” “filth,” “feces,”
and “crime.”

The papers editorials have consistently praised the mayor for his
crackdowns – but have been alarmingly short on any positive suggestions,
especially those that cost money or protect the rights of homeless people.

In 2012, when then-Assemblymember Tom Ammiano proposed a Bill of Rights
for homeless people, the Chron mocked it as a “bad idea
<http://www.sfgate.com/opinion/editorials/article/Tom-Ammiano-s-homeless-bill-is-bad-idea-4095005.php>”
and said it was “an absurd reaction to restrictions on homeless conduct
and tough-love ideas such as San Francisco’s “Care Not Cash” program
that substitutes housing and counseling services for welfare checks.”

As part of our work in the media project on homelessness, we decided to
look at how the most dominant news media outlet in the city – and that’s
still the Chronicle – addressed the issue over the past year.

Most of the problems we found are not unique to the Chron; they are
common to local news media coverage. And they are persistent.

We’ve searched through SF Chronicle.com and SFGate.com, and identified
more than 100 stories, columns, and editorials with the words “homeless”
or “homelessness” in them.

A passed-out, unnamed homeless person depicted on sfistcreates an image
of drunks and drug addicts
<http://i0.wp.com/48hills.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/48hillshomelesschron2.jpg>
A passed-out, unnamed homeless person depicted on sfist creates an image
of drunks and drug addicts. Photo by Marc Flores

We included all types of coverage: Straightforward news reports, house
editorials, guest opeds, and staff columns. Together, they create the
overall penumbra, the picture of how homeless people are perceived, by
the newspaper that still sets the mainstream political agenda.

We graded every story on a 1-5 basis – not for accuracy or for
completeness or even for political approach but for how that story
presented homeless people. Stories that repeatedly used keywords like
“drugs” and “filth” got a 1 or 2; stories that showed who the people on
the streets really are, in a more accurate and nuanced fashion, got a 4
or 5.

Our goal was to see not whether the Chron is accurate or missing stories
or ignoring problems – but how consumers of media are taught to see
homeless people.

That appearance matters – a lot. When the majority of the portrayals of
homeless people use the terms “drug-addict” or “filth,” it creates a
visceral impression for the readers. It sets the tone of how people view
the human beings who, in many cases, were our neighbors until they were
evicted or lost their homes.

When the New York Times refers to our neighbors as “clumps of humanity”
<http://www.salon.com/2016/05/16/clumps_of_humanity_this_new_york_times_article_treated_homelessness_in_just_about_the_worst_way_possible/>
and says things like this:

    “San Francisco residents have over decades become inured to
    encounters with the city’s homeless population, the clumps of
    humanity sleeping on sidewalks under coats and makeshift blankets,
    or drug addicts shooting up in full view of pedestrians. There are
    also the tension-filled but common scenes of mentally ill men and
    women stumbling down streets, arguing with imaginary enemies or
    harassing passers-by.”

Or the Chron’s Kevin Fagan leads off the current series with this:

    still, the city remains home to sprawling tent cities, junkies
    squatting on blankets shooting heroin, and all manner of anguished
    destitute people and beggars holding out hands.

(excuse me: “beggars?” I was taught 35 years ago at my first newspaper
job never to use that word)

You get an impression. And it isn’t a nice one.

Truth is, many, many homeless people are neither drug addicts nor
severely mentally ill. If you actually go and talk to people living on
the streets
<http://48hills.org/2016/02/24/where-will-the-division-homeless-go/>,
you hear stories of people who are just like the rest of us, except for
the misfortune to live in a city and a society that treats housing as a
privilege
<http://48hills.org/2016/06/27/why-are-so-many-people-homeless-in-sf/>
available only to those who have large amounts of money.

This picture of Sabrina, taken by Rebecca Bowe for the Bay Guardian in
2014, is a very different image of homeless people
<http://i0.wp.com/48hills.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/48hillshomelesschronalternative.jpg>
This picture of Sabrina, taken by Rebecca Bowe for the Bay Guardian in
2014, is a very different image of homeless people

But the more we treat the issue as one of dealing with a population of
squatting junkies and people who live in filth and shit in the streets
(excuse me – no bathrooms) and attract rodents and are a public-health
menace, the more that “emergency” solutions like police sweeps and
criminalization appear attractive.

If we treat the people living on the streets for who they are – our
neighbors who may have all sorts of issues (as many of our housed
neighbors do) and are no different from us except that our society has
failed them, then different types of solutions start to sound appealing.

I happen to have known many people who live indoors, in houses or
apartments in San Francisco, who’ve had mental-health challenges. I’ve
known people with serious substance-abuse challenges. The difference
between them and the people on the streets is that they’ve have a roof
over their heads and were able to do what they did in private. Because
they were behind closed doors, they don’t become “quality of life”
problems for people who walk by.

Audrey Cooper, the Chron’s editor, told the NYTimes “the issue became
personal for her”
<http://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/16/us/san-francisco-homelessness.html?_r=0>
when she passed by a couple having sex in a tent, with the flap open,
and a pit bull standing guard. I think it’s fair to say that many of the
people who have homes in San Francisco also have sex, and dogs. But they
have a bit of privacy.

Related article  Governor's housing plan promoted at closed-door meeting
with Mayor Lee

<http://48hills.org/2016/07/20/governors-housing-plan-promoted-at-closed-door-meeting-with-mayor-lee/>

Words matter; the way we portray people matters. Most of the news media
no longer use words like “crippled” or “retarded.” Long ago, I learned
to use “people with AIDS” instead of “AIDS victims.” There’s a long list
of words that we don’t use, because some portrayals of people are
inherently derogatory.

So how does the Chron do?

Well, if you take out CW Nevius, who just brings down the average, the
paper over about 100 stories averaged 2.8. If you want to assume that 3
out of 5 is fine and “objective,” that’s okay, but that’s not what we
were looking for.

We’re looking for overall image – and frankly, there are a lot of
problems. They go far beyond the Chronicle – nearly every major news
media outlet in this town has fallen into the trap of blaming homeless
people for the fact that they don’t have a place of their own to sleep.

In that sense, anything below about a 4 is a problem.

Let’s look at a few examples:

In an April 15, 2006 article, columnist Willie Brown talked about
homeless camps resembling “the slums of Kolkata.” (Do we even use the
word “slums” these days? I guess Willie gets to.)

March 9, 2016, Deborah Saunders:

    When you get off BART at the Civic Center and Powell Street
    stations, you see people sleeping in de facto encampments in
    hallways — and the platforms stink of urine. In bad weather, walking
    through Civic Center and Powell stations can feel downright
    menacing. When taxpayers don’t feel safe taking BART, when all they
    see is squalor, they will find other ways to get around

(Actually, I go through those BART stations all the time, and I almost
never see anyone who seems “menancing.” Which is a pretty strong word.)

Brandon Mercer, Aug. 25, 2015:

    Walking up Mission Street, passing a woman with festering,
    puss-filled lesions along her legs, watching a man lying on his back
    on the concrete, writhing and grunting, and hearing a man screaming
    obscenities at firefighters in an ambulance — all within the same
    block on the same morning– it hit me. The solution to San
    Francisco’s homeless problem is simple.

    STOP CALLING THEM HOMELESS.

    San Francisco has a mental health problem, and there are 7,500
    people, most with some degree of mental illness, wandering the streets.

(Yes, there are homeless people who are mentally ill. Most homeless
people do not meet anything close to the description Mercer presents here.)

Matier and Ross, Aug. 24, 2015:

    San Francisco’s streets are becoming one big toilet — with druggies,
    drunks and the mentally ill openly defecating on downtown’s busiest
    boulevards.

(“Druggies?” “Drunks?” really?)

C.W. Nevius, Aug. 10, 2015:

    the stench on the streets, homeless sidewalk campers and recklessly
    unhinged individuals roaming the neighborhoods unsupervised.

(“Recklessly unhinged? I don’t even call Chuck that, although I may have
to start.)

There are plenty of other examples of times when Chron writers
consistently describe homeless people in terms that we would not find
acceptable for, say, the disabled community, people with diseases, or
people who are victims of war, fire, famine, etc.

That dehumanizing portrayal – and yes, sometimes that’s what it is –
reinforces the idea that people who are homeless are at fault, that they
are on the streets because they have done something wrong. Which impacts
the way the public sees the problem and the way City Hall comes up with
solutions.

Some of the people who lost their homes in the recent Mission fire could
easily wind up living on the streets. The ones who were already facing
challenges, like a disabled man I met who is living on SSI, could see
their disabilities (particularly if they are mental-health disabilities)
get much worse, quickly.

If you don’t think living on the streets makes you more likely to
develop (or exacerbate) a substance-abuse problem or develop (or
exacerbate) a mental-health problem, just try it sometime.

Will we refer to those people as “crazy” or “drunks” or “recklessly
unhinged?” I hope not. Maybe we should call them what they are:
Refugees, fleeing eviction, or fire, or abusive home situations, or evil
landlords who want to get even richer, or suffering from medical
conditions that our society is not willing to pay to treat.

(For the record, the number of critical psych ward beds and staff at SF
General has been cut repeatedly over the years during bad budget times,
and has never been restored, even in good times, to the level that the
city needs. There is no housing-based “treatment on demand” for people
with alcohol or drug problems, and for the residential programs that
exist, there is little in the way of a guarantee of affordable
supportive housing when the treatment is over. These things cost money.
Instead we give Twitter a tax break.)

Cooper told me that “our news reporting has been consistently awesome.
Obits on the front page, for example. Much since the first Shame of the
City. And I also wouldn’t discount things like the weekend pieces from
the mayors. I think we are probably the only ones who could have
convinced them to do that. It wasn’t easy!”

And indeed, there have been some excellent pieces in the Chron. Heather
Knight’s article about discussing homelessness with children
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/Talking-to-children-about-homeless-Keep-it-7252139.php?t=2075f51399&cmpid=twitter-premium>
is a solid 5 on our scale. Her pieces on the myths of homelessness
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/Myths-like-homeless-problem-not-going-away-7238304.php?t=668acdd1fe&cmpid=twitter-premium>
were really great (they alsofollowed by several months our story with
the same name
<http://48hills.org/2016/02/16/five-myths-about-the-homeless-problem-in-san-francisco/>).
Many of the news pieces we read were pretty neutral. It’s important to
put faces on the problem and in some cases, the Chron has done that,
well
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/The-sad-lonely-end-to-a-lifetime-of-unrealized-6713906.php>.

Related article  Criminal justice and mental illness: What's SF's answer?

<http://48hills.org/2016/10/13/16243/>

Cooper has no control over the editorial page. Like most big dailies,
the Chron keeps those roles distinct — the editorial page editor, John
Diaz, reports directly to the publisher. His page is generally
neo-liberal in its approach, and its one local columnist is Saunders,
who is a Republican. Why the Chron has no liberal editorial page
columnist is one of the great mysteries of the world.

But Nevius and Brown and Matier and Ross are news columnists, and all of
them are pretty virulently anti-homeless and use pretty disgraceful
language all the time. I asked Cooper why there was no progressive
columnist to counter their bile:

    I would love to get a more progressive voice in the paper. It’s been
    something I’ve wanted to do since I was named editor – I’ve had
    several conversations with progressives I respect to try to find
    some candidates. I agree it’s a missing piece.

I encourage those of you who might have another perspective on the local
news to apply. Because it’s astounding that in San Francisco, the daily
paper has nobody to challenge the strongly anti-homeless rhetoric of
C.W. Nevius.

We took 10 Nevius columns over the last six months and did a special
analysis of them. It’s pretty hard to read them all, one after the other
– over and over again, he rails about tents, tent cities, people who
live in tents, drugs, needles, violence, crime, alcoholism … Never does
he talk to homeless people who have been evicted by landlords and have
nowhere else to go. None of his columns reflect the perspective of many
of the people who are living on the streets because it’s their only
alternative.

By the numbers, he gets a 1.8. That’s because some of his columns
address policy (which we can argue about, and that’s fine – but it’s
different from dehumanizing homeless people.)

Nevius went to the same sidewalk camp we visited, where we found people
with human stories who were trying to make a go of it in a community on
the streets
<http://48hills.org/2016/02/24/where-will-the-division-homeless-go/>.
Nevius found the one person who “just wanted to get high
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/nevius/article/Sidewalk-tent-dwellers-aren-t-flocking-to-6788812.php?t=feeed7d918&cmpid=twitter-premium>.”

The message: Homeless people deserve no sympathy; they’re just
freeloading junkies who could have jobs and apartments if they wanted.

Here are some examples:

    As the Division Street campground showed, an unsupervised tent city
    inevitably collapses on itself. It begins with urine, feces and
    needles on the street, and progresses to intimidation, lawlessness
    and violence.

And:

    /I’m baffled by our local homeless advocates. Their efforts would be
    understandable if they were trying to improve conditions at shelters
    or agitating for better health and counseling services. But what
    they’re striving for now would simply preserve disorder in the streets./

And:

    /A group of characters who look as if they walked off a “Mad Max”
    movie set pitched tents on the sidewalks and took over the
    neighborhood./

And:

    We know that taking formal action — demanding that the squatters
    leave the area and enforcing the move — could easily result in the
    kind of unpleasant video of police rousting the homeless that could
    fuel a political confrontation. But it must be done. Otherwise,
    Mayor Ed Lee is ineffective, timid and clueless

You get the picture.

It’s one thing to say that you don’t think tents on the sidewalk are the
answer to the crisis. It’s another to focus almost entirely on things
that are guaranteed to make readers think the residents are scary,
drug-addicted thugs who ought to be rousted to make way for civilized
society.

Words matter. They create impressions. And the words in the Chron too
often give the impression that homeless people are The Other, something
to fear, a source of disgust. And I’m sorry, but that’s why these
anti-homeless measures that will never work
<http://48hills.org/2016/06/23/sick-politics-farrell-wiener-anti-homeless-measures/>
get traction over real solutions.

I have no problem with hard-hitting newspaper stories; nobody can accuse
48hills of playing softball with elected officials or powerful
interests. I write headlines that I hope will get attention (and I wish
I could be as good at it as the NY Post
<http://www.mandatory.com/2012/12/03/the-most-ridiculous-new-york-post-headlines-over-the-years/>).
But we go after the mayor, and the supes, and Ron Conway, and PG&E, and
the billionaires. We are much kinder to the people who society has failed.

Sponsored link
<http://48hills.org/linkout/16638>

The Chron today offered some real solutions
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/supportive-housing/>;
that’s good, and what a newspaper should do when faced with a crisis. I
give her immense credit to Cooper for trying to take this on.

When I told her I was looking at the Chron’s coverage, she told me she
was hoping that this week we would get away from “the noise and
vitriol.” I’m all in favor.

And the Chron is not alone; much of the news media coverage of
homelessness has the same problem.

So we can all start by looking at how our columnists (and some stories,
and some headlines) contribute – in a really dangerous way – to creating
that vitriol.

/Research assistance by Sofia Aguilar, Michael Redmond, Jamie Hughes,
and James Holcombe/


Share this

  * 506Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)506
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/29/homelessness-the-medias-big-problem/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/29/homelessness-the-medias-big-problem/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/29/homelessness-the-medias-big-problem/?share=reddit&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/29/homelessness-the-medias-big-problem/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/29/homelessness-the-medias-big-problem/?share=linkedin&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/29/homelessness-the-medias-big-problem/?share=pocket&nb=1>
  * Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)
    <whatsapp://send?text=Homelessness%3A%20the%20media%27s%20big%20problem%20http%3A%2F%2F48hills.org%2F2016%2F06%2F29%2Fhomelessness-the-medias-big-problem%2F>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/29/homelessness-the-medias-big-problem/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/29/homelessness-the-medias-big-problem/#print>
*

  * TAGS
  * Homeless

    <http://48hills.org/topics/homeless/>
  * Homeless Project

    <http://48hills.org/topics/homeless-project/>
  * SF Chronice

    <http://48hills.org/topics/sf-chronice/>

Tim Redmond <http://48hills.org/author/tim/>
Tim Redmond <http://48hills.org/author/tim/>
http://48hills.org <http://48hills.org/>
Tim Redmond has been a political and investigative reporter in San
Francisco for more than 30 years. He spent much of that time as
executive editor of the Bay Guardian. He is the founder of 48hills.
// <https://www.facebook.com/48hills/> //
<mailto:timredmondsf@gmail.com> // <https://twitter.com/timredmondsf>

Sponsored link
<http://48hills.org/linkout/16650>

More by Tim Redmond

 1.

    Corporate Democrats, nationally and at home
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/15/corporate-democrats-nationally-and-at-home/>

 2.

    Does SF need a contingency plan?
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/15/sf-contingency/>

 3.

    Defending San Francisco values
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/13/defending-san-francisco-values/>

 4.

    The Agenda, Nov. 14-20: Post-Trump SF, Week One
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/13/the-agenda-nov-14-20-post-trump-sf-week-one/>

 5.

    Does California need to secede?
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/09/california-need-secede/>

More from this section

  *

    Corporate Democrats, nationally and at home
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/15/corporate-democrats-nationally-and-at-home/>

  *

    Does SF need a contingency plan?
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/15/sf-contingency/>

  *

    Afraid — and fighting
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/14/hope-fear-and-trans-rights-in-the-age-of-trump/>

  *

    How to keep saving the planet
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/14/keep-saving-planet/>

  *

    Defending San Francisco values
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/13/defending-san-francisco-values/>


        BIG WEEK

<http://48hills.org/bigweek/evening-solidarity-33-13rd/>
Wed 11/16


      Sad Vacation, Evening of Solidarity, 33 1/3rd,
      <http://48hills.org/bigweek/evening-solidarity-33-13rd/>

Marke B. <http://48hills.org/author/marke-b/> - Nov 16th
Get our weekly newsletter

  *
    Email

  *
    First Name

  *
    Last Name

*

<http://48hills.org/>

ABOUT US
48hills.org is the official publication of the non-profit San Francisco
Progressive Media Company.
Contact Us <http://48hills.org/contact/>
Advertise <http://48hills.org/advertise-with-us/>
Contact us: info@48hills.org <mailto:info@48hills.org>

FOLLOW US
// <https://www.facebook.com/48hills> // <https://twitter.com/48hills>

  * Best of the Bay <http://48hills.org/sections/best-of-the-bay/>
  * Contact <http://48hills.org/contact/>
  * About <http://48hills.org/about/>
  * Newsletter <http://48hills.org/newsletter/>
  * Advertise With Us <http://48hills.org/advertise-with-us/>
  * Shop <http://48hills.org/store/>
  * Donate <http://48hills.org/support-donate/>

© 48hills
:)
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

