//

<#>
//

<#>

  * News <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/view-all-blog-articles>
  * Identities <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/identities>
  * Entertainment <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/entertainment>
  * Music <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/music>
  * Lifestyle <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/lifestyle>

logo <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/>
WYV Exclusive
Sign-up to our mailing list!

  *

    <https://www.facebook.com/wyvmag/>
  *

    <https://twitter.com/wearyourvoice>
  *

    <https://www.instagram.com/wearyourvoicemag/>
  *

    <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCWUELcfXOqUhhlpRW5l5TcA>

//
*Prove your humanity: * 2   +   2   =  
Lost your password?
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/wp-login.php?action=lostpassword&wpe-login=ravneetvohra>


//
//

  * News

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/view-all-blog-articles>
  * Identities

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/identities>
  * Entertainment

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/entertainment>
  * Music

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/music>
  * Lifestyle

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/lifestyle>
  * // Trending

    <#>


        // Trending

    Now

    <#>Week

    <#>Month

    <#>

        Not enough data yet, please check again later.

  * //

    <#>


  Why Can’t We Seem to Fix Homelessness?

Beth@wyvmag.com'Beth Winegarner
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/beth-winegarner>//Jun 29, 2016//Social
Justice <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/social-justice>
Home <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/>//More
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more>//Social Justice
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/social-justice>


  When Leaders ‘Do Something’ About Homelessness, it Looks Like Doing
  Nothing

Homelessness: people sleeping at St. Boniface church in San Francisco.

At St. Boniface church in San Francisco a cold morning has brought
homeless in from the rain where they bundle up and sleep in the pews. A
man wanders around the aisle searching for his friend. Brant Ward/San
Francisco Chronicle.

Step inside San Francisco’s St. Boniface Church on any weekday, and
you’ll find dozens of homeless people asleep in its pews
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/homelessness-just-one-crisis-away>.
The deep, windowless quiet inside the church creates a sanctuary not
only for the Catholics who visit, but also for a portion of the more
than 6,600 people experiencing homelessness who might find it difficult
to sleep well on San Francisco’s hard, noisy streets.

For more than three years I worked in the Tenderloin, just a few blocks
from those pews. Every day I would get off the subway at Civic Center
Station, walking through its underground hallways just as police
officers were coming around to rouse people from their sleeping bags and
blankets along the walls. I would surface on the escalator at Hyde and
Market, outside the Burger King where many gather in the mornings to
talk, laugh or ask commuters for spare change. (Now, that Burger King is
blaring classical music
<http://www.sfgate.com/about/article/Burger-King-San-Francisco-classical-music-7464150.php>in
an effort to scare them off. Good luck with that.) I would walk past the
Main Library, where dozens of people — many of them homeless — waited
for the doors to open so they could use the toilets, wash up, check
their email or find a quiet place to rest. And I would walk up Larkin
Street, where many more hung out in front of the library, pushed carts
full of belongings or napped with their dogs in the grass at Civic
Center Plaza.

Every day, I wished I knew what I could do to help.

I’ve lived in the Bay Area all my life, and finding solutions to the
homelessness situation has seemed intractable for decades. Even city
leaders don’t seem to know what to do. San Francisco’s homeless
population hasn’t decreased in many years, even though the city spends
$241 million a year on the issue. Or maybe leaders know what to do but
they aren’t doing it — either because it’s unpopular or too expensive.

These places I walked past daily are all within a stone’s throw of City
Hall, which is theoretically the epicenter for homeless services in San
Francisco. Although witnessing these people made me more compassionate,
it seems to have had the opposite effect on city officials.

The city has provided very few public toilets
<http://www.sfweekly.com/sanfrancisco/occupied-san-francisco-understanding-the-city-through-its-toilets-yes-really/Content?oid=2948873>,
leaving many homeless folks to relieve themselves on city sidewalks.
This, in turn, has led the city to increase power-washing of its
dirtiest streets, often ousting homeless people
<http://www.truth-out.org/news/item/23566-homeless-forced-from-market-street>in
the process. When the Super Bowl came to town in January, Mayor Ed Lee
told San Francisco’s homeless that they would have to “leave the streets
<http://www.sfgate.com/bayarea/matier-ross/article/S-F-mayor-Homeless-have-to-leave-the-6465209.php>,”
but with just 1,500 shelter beds in the city, didn’t provide any obvious
place for them to go. Many of them moved to a tent encampment under the
freeway, where they were given $100 citations
<http://abc7news.com/sports/i-team-super-bowl-puts-strain-on-homeless-in-san-francisco/1184577/>for
“blocking the sidewalk,” a sum few can pay. City Supervisor Scott Wiener
said the tents “needed to go away.”
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/01/25/s-f-supervisor-scott-wiener-city-needs-fast-response-to-homeless-tent-camps>In
April, city police shot and killed
<http://www.sfgate.com/news/article/Officer-involved-shooting-in-S-F-s-Mission-7234550.php>a
homeless man.

San Francisco’s most vulnerable are the ones most likely to become
homeless — and homelessness makes them even more vulnerable.

According to San Francisco’s 2015 homelessness survey
<https://sfgov.org/lhcb/sites/sfgov.org.lhcb/files/2015%20San%20Francisco%20Homeless%20Count%20%20Report_0.pdf>,
one-third of the city’s homeless are female. Another 6 percent are
transgender or another nonbinary gender. Twenty-nine percent identify as
LGBTQ. Forty percent of the city’s homeless said they were addicted to
drugs or alcohol; 37 percent said they were struggling with a chronic
health or mental health condition. Thirteen percent of the LGBTQ
contingent and 4 percent of other city homeless are living with HIV or
an AIDS-related illness. Roughly 19 percent of San Francisco’s homeless
are Latinx, while 36 percent identify as African American and another 19
percent are multi-ethnic.

Seventy-one percent said they were formerly housed in San Francisco —
evidence that the city’s skyrocketing rents
<https://www.rentjungle.com/average-rent-in-san-francisco-rent-trends/>and
real-estate prices are displacing its most at-risk residents.

Many of them are suffering from trauma
<https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/talking-about-trauma/201308/homelessness-trauma-0>.
Veterans may still be grappling with post-war PTSD. Five percent of San
Francisco homeless said they lost their housing after leaving a domestic
violence situation. Another 18 percent became homeless due to drugs and
alcohol — potentially self-medicating after a traumatic event or a
lifetime of crisis. And if they weren’t traumatized before they became
homeless, it’s likely that the experience of losing everything, living
without a safety net or drifting through unstable and dangerous
situations will create trauma. And PTSD is one of the most significant
<http://www.rand.org/blog/2012/05/posttraumatic-stress-disorder-a-significant-public.html>—
if not the most significant — public health problems at the core of
society, homeless and otherwise.

American capitalism has created a system in which only certain people —
healthy, mentally well, white and mainly cisgendered people — can
succeed. Anyone who falls outside those boundaries — who can’t work full
time because they’re disabled, mentally ill, caring for a relative or
juggling children, or who is excluded because of age, race, sexuality or
gender — runs the risk of poverty. Of homelessness.

And, based on what I’ve seen on the streets of the Tenderloin and in the
pews at St. Boniface, our homeless are being treated like little more
than human garbage. These are human beings with histories. With parents
and kids. With skills and aspirations. They’ve lived hard lives. They’ve
overcome a lot, but society has done its best to throw them away.

They deserve much, much better.

|

|


      Comments

Share This Post:
/

/
Previous Article
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/entertainment/ask-ashleigh-what-did-you-think-about-jesse-williams-speech-at-the-bet-awards>Ask
Ashleigh: What Did You Think About Jesse Williams' Speech at the BET
Awards?
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/entertainment/ask-ashleigh-what-did-you-think-about-jesse-williams-speech-at-the-bet-awards>
/

/
Next Article
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/feminism/decolonizing-my-pussy-moving-through-body-shame-gender-dysphoria-sexual-abuse>Decolonizing
My Pussy: Moving Through Body Shame, Gender Dysphoria, & Sexual Abuse
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/feminism/decolonizing-my-pussy-moving-through-body-shame-gender-dysphoria-sexual-abuse>
Beth@wyvmag.com' <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/beth-winegarner>
Beth Winegarner <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/beth-winegarner>
Senior Editor
// <mailto:Beth@wyvmag.com> // <http://www.twitter.com/@beth_winegarner>


Related Posts

  *
    Dakota pipeline protests
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/black-native-lives-matter-together>


            Black and Native Lives Must Matter Together
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/black-native-lives-matter-together>

    Heather Jones <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/heather-jones>//Sep
    28, 2016
  *
    Name and identity
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/changing-name-trans-resistance>


            How Changing My Name Gave Me a Deeper Respect for the
            Resistance Trans Folks Face
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/changing-name-trans-resistance>

    Sezin Koehler <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/sezin>//Sep 30, 2016
  *
    21343659831_b8e08c16bd_h
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/feminism/dont-dick-justin-bieber>


            Feminists: Don’t Be A Dick To Justin Bieber
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/feminism/dont-dick-justin-bieber>

    Laurel Dickman
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/laurel-dickman>//Oct 19, 2015
  *
    dark-skin-makeup-wear-your-voice
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/beauty/will-beauty-industry-show-dark-girls-love>


            Will The Beauty Industry Show Dark Girls Love?
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/beauty/will-beauty-industry-show-dark-girls-love>

    Randi Butler <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/randi>//May 25, 2016
  *
    Photo by Samantha Celera. Creative Commons license.
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/sex/thoughts-sex-positivity>


            When Sex Positivity Isn’t: A Queer Dialogue
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/sex/thoughts-sex-positivity>

    Ash Fisher <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/ash-fisher>//Jan 29, 2016
  *
    Books on trauma: The Body Keeps the Score
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/body-politics/5-books-understanding-trauma>


            5 Great Books for Making Sense of Trauma
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/body-politics/5-books-understanding-trauma>

    Guest Blogger <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/guest-blogger>//Jul
    20, 2016
  *
    salt_fish_girl_Lai_filmadaptations_wearyourvoice
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/entertainment/7-feminist-books-made-remade-films>


            7 Feminist Books That Should Be Made (or Remade) Into Films
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/entertainment/7-feminist-books-made-remade-films>

    Roni Canieso <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/roni-canieso>//Feb 9,
    2016
  *
    Trigger warnings
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/ableism/defense-trigger-warnings>


            In Defense of Trigger Warnings: A Trauma Survivor’s
            Perspective
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/ableism/defense-trigger-warnings>

    Guest Blogger <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/guest-blogger>//Sep
    22, 2016

  * //

    <#>
  * //

    <#>

logo <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/>

  * Media Kit <http://media.wearyourvoicemag.com/>
  * Our Team <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team-page>
  * Terms of Use <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/terms-of-use>

  * About Us <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/our-story>
  * Writer Submissions <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/writer>
  * CONTACT <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/contact>

  * Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/wyvmag/>
  * Instagram <https://www.instagram.com/wearyourvoicemag/>
  * Twitter
    <https://twitter.com/WearYourVoice?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor>
  * Youtube <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCWUELcfXOqUhhlpRW5l5TcA>

:)
