  * About Castro Valley Matters

    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/about-us/>
      o Board of Directors

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/board-of-directors/>
      o About the Blog

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/about-the-blog/>
      o Join Castro Valley Matters

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/civicrm/?page=CiviCRM&q=civicrm/contribute/transact&reset=1&id=1>
      o Donate to Castro Valley Matters

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/civicrm/?page=CiviCRM&q=civicrm/contribute/transact&reset=1&id=2>
  * Blog Roll

    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/blog-roll/>
      o Local Control

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/castro-valley-local-control/>
      o Governance

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/castro-valley-governance/>
      o Economic Development

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/castro-valley-economic-development/>
      o Public Safety

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/castro-valley-public-safety/>
      o Education

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/castro-valley-education/>
      o Valley Voices

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/valley-voices/>
  * Upcoming events

    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/events/>
  * Civic Toolkit

    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/toolkit/>
  * Elected MAC

    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/elected-mac/>
  * Join CVM Today!

    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/civicrm/?page=CiviCRM&q=civicrm/contribute/transact&reset=1&id=1>

Castro Valley Matters

<http://castrovalleymatters.org/>

Engage, Inform, Promote, and Advocate for a Better Castro Valley


  SF Homeless Project: Telling the story in Castro Valley

June 27, 2016 by Michael Kusiak
<http://castrovalleymatters.org/author/mkusiak/> Leave a Comment
<http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/06/27/homeless-castro-valley/#respond>

Some 4,000 people in Alameda County are homeless.  They are the elderly,
families, men, women and children.

Many view homelessness as an urban problem, left to our cities to
resolve. In fact, most of the visible homeless in Alameda County are
estimated to be in Oakland and Berkeley, according to a 2015 repor
<http://everyonehome.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/EOC_Full2.pdf>t on
homelessness in Alameda County by EveryOne Home <http://everyonehome.org/>.

While there are no estimates of the homeless population in Castro
Valley, we do have a homeless community, some long-time residents who
suddenly found themselves without shelter.

Castro Valley Matters is participating in the SF Homeless Project
<http://www.sfgate.com/homeless/>, an initiative spearheaded by San
Francisco Chronicle Editor Audrey Cooper
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/author/audrey-cooper/>. It initially started
as a project centered on homelessness in San Francisco, but it has grown
to encompass over 70 organizations, including Castro Valley Matters.

The premise of the SF Homeless Project is to create a “wave” of coverage
to better inform policy affecting the homeless.  “You will not be able
to log onto Facebook, turn on the radio, watch TV, read a newspaper, log
onto Twitter without seeing a story about the causes and solutions to
homelessness,” Cooper recently said in /The New York Times/
<http://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/16/us/san-francisco-homelessness.html?_r=0>.

Homelessness is not just a San Francisco, Oakland or San Jose problem.
It is not just an issue for Castro Valley. It is not an urban vs.
suburban issue. Homelessness affects residents and communities
throughout the Bay Area.

This  is why this week, and on an on-going basis, Castro Valley Matters
will be publishing stories about homelessness in Castro Valley. We
want to understand homelessness in Castro Valley so that our community
can develop informed solutions.

We don’t pretend to know all of the stories or all of the solutions, so
we are relying on you to help guide the conversation.

We encourage you to provide your stories to help Castro Valley become a
more livable community for all.

*/See a letter from the participants in the SF Homeless Project/
<http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/06/27/sf-homeless-project-letter-city/>.*

Filed Under: Community
<http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/community/>, Featured Story
<http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/featured-story/>, SF Homeless
Project <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/sf-homeless-project/>
Tagged With: Homeless <http://castrovalleymatters.org/tag/homeless/>


        About Michael Kusiak

Michael is a founding member and President of Castro Valley Matters. He
works at the University of California, Office of the President. He
earned his BA in German and Economics at the University of Richmond and
completed his MA in European Studies at Washington University in St.
Louis. He has worked in a variety of research administration and policy
roles at the University of California. Much of his current work focuses
on developing applications to streamline the policy decision making
process. He lives in Castro Valley with his two young sons and wife.


      Leave a Reply Cancel reply
      <http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/06/27/homeless-castro-valley/#respond>

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment

Name *

Email *

Website

  *  <https://www.facebook.com/CastroValleyMatters>
  *  <http://castrovalleymatters.org/feed/>
  *  <https://twitter.com/ceeveematters/>


        Search this Site


        Recent Comments

  * Ellen Griffin on Daughtrey’s on Monday’s MAC agenda with giant
    indoor playground plan
    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/11/23/daughtreys-on-mondays-mac-agenda-with-indoor-playground-plan/#comment-3119>
  * Ellen Griffin on Daughtrey’s on Monday’s MAC agenda with giant
    indoor playground plan
    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/11/23/daughtreys-on-mondays-mac-agenda-with-indoor-playground-plan/#comment-3118>
  * Peter Rosen on Daughtrey’s on Monday’s MAC agenda with giant indoor
    playground plan
    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/11/23/daughtreys-on-mondays-mac-agenda-with-indoor-playground-plan/#comment-3115>
  * David Greensfelder on Daughtrey’s on Monday’s MAC agenda with giant
    indoor playground plan
    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/11/23/daughtreys-on-mondays-mac-agenda-with-indoor-playground-plan/#comment-3113>
  * David Greensfelder on Daughtrey’s on Monday’s MAC agenda with giant
    indoor playground plan
    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/11/23/daughtreys-on-mondays-mac-agenda-with-indoor-playground-plan/#comment-3112>


        Find Us On Facebook

Copyright © 2016 · News Pro Theme
<http://my.studiopress.com/themes/news/> on Genesis Framework
<http://www.studiopress.com/> · WordPress <http://wordpress.org/> · Log
in <http://castrovalleymatters.org/wp-login.php>

