  * English

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/>
  * Spanish

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/es/>

El Tecolote

<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/>
//

  * Home

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/>
  * News

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/>
      o Education

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/education/>
      o Immigration

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/immigration-news/>
      o Housing

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/housing-news/>
      o Health

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/health-news/>
  * Arts & Culture

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/>
      o Film and Literary Reviews

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/film-and-literary-reviews/>
      o People in the Arts

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/people-in-the-arts/>
      o Event Coverage

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/event-coverage/>
  * Features

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/features/>
  * Community

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/community-2/>
  * Latin America

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/latin_america/>
  * Commentary

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/>
      o Immigration 101

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/immigration-101/>
      o Veterans’ Voices

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/veterans-voices-commentary/>
      o Letters

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/letters/>
      o Opinion

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/opinion-en/>
  * About

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/about-2/>
      o Archive

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/print-issue-archive/>
      o Volunteer

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/about-2/volunteer/>
      o Acción Latina

        <http://accionlatina.org/>
  * Advertise

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/advertise-2/>
  * Contact

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/contact/>


  Homelessness solution must address health as well as housing

// June 29, 2016 // David Chiu
Share this: Facebook <#> Twitter <#> Google+ <#> Pinterest <#> Email to
a Friend <#>
A man sits next to his tent in San Francisco at the Division Street
homeless encampment, Friday, Feb. 26, 2016. Photo Santiago Mejía
<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Homeless-image_01web.jpg>

A man sits next to his tent in San Francisco at the Division Street
homeless encampment, Friday, Feb. 26, 2016. Photo Santiago Mejía

California has the unfortunate distinction of having the largest
homeless population of any state in our country. On any given night, 20
percent of our nation’s homeless are on California’s streets or in our
shelters. Anyone who strolls down our city’s streets can witness San
Francisco’s homelessness crisis. Despite years of effort and billions of
dollars, we have nearly 7,000 homeless residents in our city, which
should not be the case for one of our nation’s most progressive,
innovative and wealthy cities.

Every year, we spend hundreds of millions of public dollars trying to
address this issue, with the overwhelming majority of public funds going
to healthcare. California spends an average of $2,879 per month per
homeless resident, with two-thirds of that amount spent on healthcare alone.

The disproportionate amount for healthcare should not be a surprise.
When a person lives on the streets, it is incredibly difficult to
effectively treat health issues: medication is hard to store; sleep is
hard to get; a healthy diet is impossible; and prolonged exposure to the
elements is a certainty. Many homeless individuals cycle through
emergency rooms, inpatient admissions and nursing home stays.
Considerable public resources are spent, but those who suffer are our
homeless residents.

We need to change the paradigm of how we address homelessness. We cannot
talk about public health without addressing housing and homelessness
issues. We cannot talk about housing and homelessness without addressing
public health issues.

That is why I am championing Assembly Bill 2821, to create a program
that pays for housing for homeless individuals who are on Medi-Cal, our
state’s safety net health care program. To make sure the new initiative
works and actually results in a reduction in homelessness, we will keep
track of the healthcare cost savings as a result of housing and
services. The program will make a smart, one-time investment to create a
lasting solution to helping our most vulnerable Californians.

To truly make an impact, we must put housing first, as a city and as a
state. Through a housing-first approach, we focus on housing as a
homeless individual’s primary need, and then address other issues such
as addictions and mental illness through services, in a combination
known as supportive housing.  San Francisco has a decent record when it
comes to supportive housing, but we must do better.

Studies have shown that housing homeless individuals with alcohol abuse
issues, even those who still require treatment, dramatically improves
health outcomes and reduces healthcare costs.  Individuals in supportive
housing cost taxpayers $2,449 less per month than those still living on
the streets. When we invest in housing on the front end, it’s clear that
everyone benefits—our city, our taxpayers, and most importantly, the
individuals themselves.

With the help of many supporters, including Speaker Emeritus Toni
Atkins, the Corporation for Supportive Housing and Housing California,
AB 2821 has passed the State Assembly and its first committee in the
State Senate. To support our efforts to make AB 2821 law, please contact
our office at (415) 557-3013 or email _assemblymember.chiu@asm.ca.gov_.

/ Assemblymember David Chiu is the chair of the housing and community
Development Committee of the California State Assembly. He represents
the 17//^th //Assembly District, which encompasses eastern San Francisco./

 

 

AB 2821 <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/ab-2821/> David Chiu
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/david-chiu-en/> homeless
population <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/homeless-population/>
housing for homeless
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/housing-for-homeless/> Medi-Cal
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/medi-cal-en/> SF Homeless Project
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/sf-homeless-project/>

Previous Post


      What the Mainstream Media Got Wrong About San Jose’s Anti-Trump
      Rally
      <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/what-the-mainstream-media-got-wrong-about-san-joses-anti-trump-rally/>

Next Post


      Editorial Cartoon: Homelessness
      <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/editorial-cartoon/>

Latest Print Issue
Powered by <https://issuu.com/explore>
Publish for Free <https://issuu.com/publishers?entryPoint=embed>
El Tecolote on Youtube
Recent Posts
cf6_kkk-bold-eagle_01_web
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/election-cartoons/>	


    Election Cartoons
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/election-cartoons/>

// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/election-cartoons/#respond>
A detention center in Arizona. Photo: Steve Pavey
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/opinion-en/there-are-no-borders-that-can-contain-the-cry-of-justice/>



    There are no borders that can contain the cry of...
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/opinion-en/there-are-no-borders-that-can-contain-the-cry-of-justice/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/opinion-en/there-are-no-borders-that-can-contain-the-cry-of-justice/#respond>

A stencil disparaging tech workers on a 24th Street sidewalk. Photo:
Mabel Jiménez
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/letters/letter-to-the-editor-techie-hate/>



    Letter to the editor: Techie hate
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/letters/letter-to-the-editor-techie-hate/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/letters/letter-to-the-editor-techie-hate/#respond>

Photo: Ekevara Kitpowsong
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/arts_culture/my-people-love-is-stronger-than-hate/>



    My people: Love is stronger than hate
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/arts_culture/my-people-love-is-stronger-than-hate/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/arts_culture/my-people-love-is-stronger-than-hate/#respond>

Prop 58 passed, allowing bilingual education in California schools. El
Tecolote Archives/Photo: Marina Forte
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/news/ballot-measure-results-show-ca-is-well-left-of-nation/>



    Ballot measure results show CA is well left of...
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/news/ballot-measure-results-show-ca-is-well-left-of-nation/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/news/ballot-measure-results-show-ca-is-well-left-of-nation/#respond>

Voter Guide


      About

El Tecolote newspaper began as a project in a La Raza Studies class at
San Francisco State University. Prof. Juan Gonzales created the class as
a way to channel more Latinos into journalism. In the 1970s, Latinos and
other people of color were virtually invisible in the major newsrooms.

Today El Tecolote continues to provide original local news, portraying
the diverse spectrum of Latino life.


      //Twitter

  * //RT @AccionLatinaSF <http://twitter.com/AccionLatinaSF>: Our Juan
    R. Fuentes Gallery turns 1 next month and to celebrate/fundraise we
    are hosting a special art auction with som…
    November 29th, 2016
  * //Encuentro del Canto Popular 30th Anniversary! • Dec. 11 • 7pm
    #encuentro <http://twitter.com/search?q=encuentro> @AccionLatinaSF
    <http://twitter.com/AccionLatinaSF> https://t.co/QWugKbgTKM	
    November 23rd, 2016

Copyright (c) 2016. All rights reserved.
Published by Acción Latina <http://www.accionlatina.org/>	
<#>
×

Share
Homelessness solution must address health as well as housing
|http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/homelessness-solution-must-address-health-as-well-as-housing/


  *
  *
  *
  *
  *
  *
  *
  *
  *
*

Loading Services
<a target="_blank" title="Powered by AddThis"
href="//www.addthis.com/website-tools/overview?utm_source=AddThis%20Tools&amp;utm_medium=image&amp;utm_campaign=AddThis%20expanded%20menu"
class="at-branding-logo"><div class="at-branding-icon"></div><span
class="at-branding-addthis">AddThis</span></a>
