Homepage <https://medium.com/>
The California Sunday Magazine
<https://medium.com/the-california-sunday-magazine?source=logo-lo_c9c5f5ebb63f---411bc08061cb>
Follow
<https://facebook.com/californiasunday>
Sign in / Sign up
<https://medium.com/m/signin?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fthe-california-sunday-magazine%2Fthe-runaways-15e292037c08%3Fsource%3Duser_profile---------10--------->
Next story


        Backstage

<https://medium.com/the-california-sunday-magazine/backstage-wendy-macnaughton-868102e94b58?source=read_next_metabar----------45>
41
1

  * Share
  *
    41

  *
*

Go to the profile of California Sunday

<https://medium.com/@californiasunday?source=post_header_lockup>
California Sunday
<https://medium.com/@californiasunday?source=post_header_lockup>BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Stories and photographs from California, the West, Asia, and Latin America.
Jun 28

------------------------------------------------------------------------


  The Runaways


    On the road with homeless youth

/Photographs by Matt Mimiaga
Text by Lauren Smiley
Audio by Amy Standen/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

/This is a part of //our photography series on youth homelessness/
<https://medium.com/@californiasunday/5f9d450e4fc2>/for the SF Homeless
Project. Learn about the //things that young people carry/
<https://medium.com/@californiasunday/de8832c9caa6>/, //parenting in a
shelter/ <https://medium.com/@californiasunday/72e8aa7695a3>/, and
//being homeless and LGBTQ/
<https://medium.com/@californiasunday/1855dfb807c5>/./

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dirty Kids and Crusty Kids, as they call themselves, sooner or later end
up in the Haight. They are the philosophical descendants of hippies — 
professing love for pot nugs and tattoos and the Grateful Dead and
Rainbow Gatherings out in the wilderness. But they’ve also evolved their
own reject culture with its own genus and species: Train-core are the
rail hoppers. They’ve been around as long as the country has had rails,
but they now convene in Facebook groups with names like Dirty Kid
Couchsurfing Coalition and Heathen Train Riders. Rubber Trampers live
out of their cars and pick up plain old hitchhikers. Asking for spare
change is “spanging.” If you’re new to the scene, you’ll be called an
“oogle,” but you can avoid that by wearing a “skank,” a handkerchief
around your neck. (“If you don’t wear one of these, you’re going to be
asked to buy drugs, guaranteed,” one tells me.) The whole scene is laced
with marijuana and alcohol and ’shrooms, but harder drugs can creep in, too.

They may tell you they chose the traveling life, that they love it. They
say that they do it for adventure, love of nature, rejection of
capitalism, and “there’s so much to do in the city; you don’t have to be
in one spot,” as one puts it. But some let on that they can’t exactly
find a way out. “I don’t have a résumé for shit,” says a 26-year-old
named Saydee Byers, who’s been hopping trains for eight years. “It’s so
easy to run back to it.”

For much of the past fews months Saydee has been living out of a van in
Oakland, but she frequently heads over to San Francisco to reunite with
Dirty Kids from all across the country. This life started with a
hitchhiking trip to get out of the ho-hum Northwest at age 18 — and no,
she didn’t have a dysfunctional childhood, she makes sure to tell you.
(Mom will still pay her cellphone bill from time to time.) “I’m a free
sprit,” she says. “I like to not be told what to do.”

Hear Saydee talk about life on the road

Statistically speaking, the path for Dirty Kids isn’t promising. The
death rate for homeless youth under 25 in San Francisco is ten times
greater than the state’s general youth population. Talk to Dirty Kids
and they’ll tell you about losing friends to overdoses or car wrecks,
about addictions and being narrowly revived by an emergency Narcan
injection to counteract a heroin overdose. They’ll tell you about rumors
of kids getting killed and encounters with creeps: “Some guy stood over
us and started trying to masturbate on top of us while we were sleeping.
It was really scary,” a 19-year-old girl tells me about her stop in Los
Angeles. “So we had to chase him off with an ax.”

In San Francisco, the scene has lately turned darkly tense. Last year,
three young drifters were accused of shooting a tourist dead in Golden
Gate Park, then doing the same to a man walking his dog in Marin County.
Last month saw new violence: Two men called Pizza Steve and Evil and who
lived in the park turned on a man they accused of masturbating near
kids, allegedly beating and dunking him in a pond at the park entrance
over three days until he died. This month, a group in the park stabbed a
passing man on Hippie Hill.

Since last fall’s murder, neighborhood property owners have said they’re
fed up, voicing complaints at community meetings and in letters to the
mayor. Police have ramped up their enforcement of drug crimes and have
instituted a controversial zero-tolerance policy toward sitting and
lying down in the district. The atmosphere has led many of the usual
kids to skip town; a homeless-youth outreach center has seen its daily
walk-ins cut in half, and many days you can stroll the length of Haight
Street without encountering a single Dirty Kid sitting down or loitering.

A few adults, however, have tried a much different approach, offering
the kids a viable alternative to traveling. A 40-something piercer named
Christian Calinsky is hellbent on improving the image of Dirty Kids in
the Haight; he himself was a Dirty Kid from the age of 12 to 34. “What
seemed best for me was this brightly lit road like Vegas, and it was
homelessness instead of the dark road of adulthood,” he explains. Now on
the latter path, he and a co-founder started a program aimed at
converting the kids into stewards of the neighborhood, sweeping and
removing graffiti in exchange for food and a room in a residential hotel
 — where, importantly, they can live with their dogs and partners. “It
took me about two years to get unferal,” Calinsky says of his own
experience. “They now know some stability and some responsibility and
it’s in ’em.”

More than 60 Dirty Kids in the group have graduated and are living
somewhere indoors full time. But the program hasn’t worked for everyone:
In 18 months, four kids have deserted, and Calinsky has kicked out ten
others for breaking the (very flexible) rules. Even those in the program
aren’t all completely sold. “The inside life is too comfortably boring,”
says a 19-year-old girl named Gabrielle. “There’s nothing to do.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Saydee and Lil Frankie met in 2011, a few hours before this picture was
taken. Lil Frankie, who was 19 at the time, started squatting when he
was 13 to escape an abusive household. At 14, he hopped his first train.

Saydee and Lil Frankie greeting friends while drinking at a rail yard in
Roseville

Saydee’s friend Topher with his dog, BubbaGump, in Colorado Springs.
Topher hopped his first train in 2010, looking for a new place to live
after losing his girlfriend and their unborn child to a heroin overdose.

Kids sleeping in Texas. For two of the three, it was their first time on
the road.

Lil Frankie jumping in a creek, and Saydee in Oklahoma City. The pair
were briefly engaged in 2013. Lil Frankie has since stopped traveling
and is now a tattoo artist.

Saydee’s friend Suzy in a hot spring near Salt Lake City

Last year, Jay, pictured here, died of a heroin overdose in Oakland.

Saydee bathing with her dog, Penny. Saydee lost Penny in 2012 when she
was arrested by train police.

Topher’s tattoo is a squatters’ rights symbol. Recently, Topher was
diagnosed with heart disease and will have to stop riding freight.

Saydee and her friend Kenzie in Golden Gate Park

Felix, Saydee’s then-boyfriend, with his van

Kenzie and Saydee in Felix’s van in Oakland

Felix warming up a shot of heroin he prepared the night before. He
usually saves wake-up shots for himself and Saydee to stave off
withdrawal in the mornings.

Saydee on Haight Street

Saydee cooking heroin in the Tenderloin next to her dog, Udie

Brian and Kenzie, who are a part of Calinsky’s program, at the Sunset
Hotel in the Tenderloin

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<https://medium.com/@californiasunday/1855dfb807c5>

<https://medium.com/@californiasunday/72e8aa7695a3>

<https://medium.com/@californiasunday/de8832c9caa6>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Matt Mimiaga* is a photographer based in Oakland. His long-term
projects document generational cycles of homelessness, addiction, and
incarceration.

*Lauren Smiley* is a San Francisco journalist covering how the tech boom
has changed the city.

*Amy Standen *is a podcast producer and radio reporter based in San
Francisco.

San Francisco <https://medium.com/tag/san-francisco?source=post>Homeless
<https://medium.com/tag/homeless?source=post>Photography
<https://medium.com/tag/photography?source=post>SFHomelessProject
<https://medium.com/tag/sfhomelessproject?source=post>
41
1
#
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Go to the profile of California Sunday

<https://medium.com/@californiasunday?source=footer_card>


      California Sunday <https://medium.com/@californiasunday>

Stories and photographs from California, the West, Asia, and Latin America.

#
Follow
The California Sunday Magazine

<https://medium.com/the-california-sunday-magazine?source=footer_card>


      The California Sunday Magazine
      <https://medium.com/the-california-sunday-magazine?source=footer_card>

Stories from California, the West, Asia, and Latin America.

<https://medium.com/the-california-sunday-magazine/farc-women-colombian-rebel-soldiers-a74c519bde54?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
More from The California Sunday Magazine
Women at War: Colombian Rebel Soldiers Speak Out

<https://medium.com/the-california-sunday-magazine/farc-women-colombian-rebel-soldiers-a74c519bde54?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
Go to the profile of California Sunday

<https://medium.com/@californiasunday>
California Sunday
<https://medium.com/@californiasunday?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
118
<https://medium.com/wd-tips-tricks/70-free-web-design-resources-you-never-knew-existed-6167073692dc?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Also tagged Photography
70+ Free Web Design Resources You Never Knew Existed

<https://medium.com/wd-tips-tricks/70-free-web-design-resources-you-never-knew-existed-6167073692dc?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Go to the profile of Bradley Nice

<https://medium.com/@bradley_nice>
Bradley Nice
<https://medium.com/@bradley_nice?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
77
<https://medium.com/@bobbie/pup-47a56c296703?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-40>
Related reads
Puppy or Croissant?

<https://medium.com/@bobbie/pup-47a56c296703?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-40>
Go to the profile of Bobbie Johnson

<https://medium.com/@bobbie>
Bobbie Johnson
<https://medium.com/@bobbie?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-40>
29
Responses
Write a response…
Unknown user
No responses yet
Show all responses

×

Don’t miss California Sunday’s next story
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
California SundayCalifornia Sunday
