KQED Menu

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Menu

    <#>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs & Blogs

        <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Special Coverage

        <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs <#> Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California


  KQED News <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

Search

<#search-container>


  KQED News Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Search for:

Fernando Lopez carries possessions from the Los Angeles River on Nov.
20, 2015, in Los Angeles, California. Many of the estimated 26,000
homeless in L.A. live in riverbeds and storm drains that could quickly
turn deadly during powerful storms.

Fernando Lopez carries possessions from the Los Angeles River on Nov.
20, 2015, in Los Angeles, California. Many of the estimated 26,000
homeless in L.A. live in riverbeds and storm drains that could quickly
turn deadly during powerful storms. (/David McNew/Getty Images/)

The California Report
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>


  How San Francisco and L.A. Are Addressing Homelessness

By Stephanie Martin Taylor <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/smartin/>
and Steven Cuevas <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/scuevas/>
June 29, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/how-san-francisco-and-la-are-addressing-homelessness/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/how-san-francisco-and-la-are-addressing-homelessness/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/how-san-francisco-and-la-are-addressing-homelessness/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/how-san-francisco-and-la-are-addressing-homelessness/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/how-san-francisco-and-la-are-addressing-homelessness/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/how-san-francisco-and-la-are-addressing-homelessness/?share=email&nb=1>
*


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>

After being rousted from his makeshift encampment beneath the 101
freeway in San Francisco, Tommy Hughes moved on to another street and
pitched camp there.

“The sign says you have to move from Van Ness to 10th,” he said. “We’re
just going to move to Ninth.”

Some people did go to shelters, but many others, like Hughes, just
relocated.

Instead of hundreds of tents concentrated on and around one San
Francisco street, they’re appearing more and more on various alleyways
and sidewalks — to the frustration of residents and merchants. It’s the
latest in the city’s long, frequently controversial, and always
frustrating relationship with the homeless people living on its streets.

*Homelessness is a complex issue. Learn more >>
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>*sfproject3
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>

L.A.’s Skid Row, by contrast, is a roughly 50-square-block area of
downtown that’s home to several thousand people either living on the
streets or in one of many shelters and transitional supportive housing
complexes.

To the visitor — and even to longtime residents and advocates — the
sight of so many people, block after block, living in the open, out in
the street beneath tarps, tents and lean-to’s, is shocking. But it’s
also where someone without shelter, in need of mental health services, a
hot meal or drug rehab, is most likely to find help.

The lion’s share of the city’s homeless services is concentrated in Skid
Row. This happened decades ago by design as L.A.’s transient population
blossomed. The homeless and the services they needed were directed to
one part of the city that, at least at one time, was mostly a ghost town
after government offices and garment factories shut down for the night.

“While it may appear to be a convenient solution, in the end it doesn’t
work,” says Mike Alvidrez, director of the Skid Row Housing Trust,
“unless you address the root cause, which is homelessness. Whether you
put them in a concentrated a place like Skid Row or scatter (them) all
over, you’re not addressing what is the final solution — and that is to
create more housing, in this case for a population that has other needs
as well.”

The problem in Skid Row is that bed space and services have never been
able to keep pace with the surge in homelessness.

A homeless woman waits in line to receive groceries and clothing from
Los Angeles-based non-profit My Friend's House Foundation September 23,
2015, in the skid row section of Los Angeles, California.
A homeless woman waits in line to receive groceries and clothing from
Los Angeles-based nonprofit My Friend’s House Foundation Sept. 23, 2015,
in the skid row section of Los Angeles. (Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images)

*Proposed Solutions*

The city of Los Angeles is proposing a 10-year, $1.2 billion bond
measure to help pay for an expansion of transitional housing and other
services across the city.

L.A. County also has a proposal to generate more homeless funding, with
an emphasis on housing, by taxing its most wealthy residents. People who
earn over $1 million a year would see their taxes rise by one-half percent.

Supervisor Mike Antonovich is one of the lone voices opposing the
so-called millionaire’s tax. He says the county already has one of the
highest tax rates in the U.S. He doesn’t think the proposal fully
addresses the root causes of homelessness.

At a recent hearing he pointed to outreach the county did on public
buses and metro lines, trying to steer homeless people to available
shelters and other services.

“(Most) refuse treatment and walk away. I have called in on the homeless
I see, driving to and from work. Regardless how hot it is or how cool,
they refuse shelter,” says Antonovich. “They are mentally ill. They need
assistance; they need medical help. Having just another revenue source
to build another house is not addressing the root cause of the problem
for those people who are mentally and physically ill.”

In San Francisco, a group of supervisors has introduced a November
ballot measure designed to ban street encampments.

A homeless man sleeps in front of his tent along Van Ness Avenue in
downtown San Francisco, California on June, 27 2016.
A homeless man sleeps in front of his tent along Van Ness Avenue in
downtown San Francisco, California, on June, 27 2016. (Josh
Edelson/AFP/Getty Images))

If approved by voters, those living in tents and other makeshift
shelters could be forcibly removed if they declined to move to an
available shelter or transitional housing facility. Supporters of the
proposed crackdown argue the tents pose health and safety risks, both
for the people who live in them and residents who have to live and work
around them.

“As a city, we need to have a policy that we’re not enabling individuals
or groups of people to set up tents and allow the city to be complacent
in that issue,” says Supervisor Mark Farrell, who authored the measure.

“Again, I don’t think it’s healthy for anybody,” he adds.

But critics say the city doesn’t have nearly enough shelter beds to
accommodate the number of people currently living on the street, and
that the move is nothing more than political grandstanding.
In Los Angeles, there is also criticism that the city is funneling the
lion’s share of money currently budgeted for homelessness to police
enforcement in places like Skid Row.

“We’re going to go after bond measures, millionaire’s taxes, but at the
same time we continue to create costly ordinances that are going to cost
us in the court of law,” says Pete White, director of the Los Angeles
Community Action Network based in Skid Row.

A new ordinance approved by the L.A. City Council aims to prohibit
homeless people from “lodging” in vehicles parked near homes and
schools. But people will be allowed to sleep in their vehicles — sedans,
trucks or RV’s — from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. in commercial areas and in the
parking lots of certain churches and nonprofits.

That crackdown coincides with a seemingly contradictory move by the Los
Angeles Police Commission, directing officers to show more “compassion
and empathy” when it comes to day-to-day encounters with the homeless.

But many officers, especially those with the challenge of patrolling
Skid Row, argue they already show a great deal of patience and
compassion when working a part of the city with the highest
concentration of mental illness, street violence and drug abuse.

“The enforcement costs us a lot of money. We are pursuing policies to
criminalize people who are living in their vehicles, but we clearly
don’t have anywhere else for people to go,” says L.A. Community Action
Network’s White.

San Francisco already spends about a quarter-billion dollars a year on
homelessness, but services have been difficult and confusing for many
people to access.

“The resources? OK, if there’s so many resources, where are they?” asks
Rebecca Padilla, a tent encampment resident. “You’ve got to do your
research. You’ve got to go place to place. Not everybody can do that.”

To streamline services and better track the homeless people who use
them, the city has created a new Department of Homeless Services. It’s
also expanding its successful homeless Navigation Center — begun as a
pilot program in the city’s Mission District — to other locations around
the city.

*ABOUT THE SERIES:*
/This story is part of a remarkable media collaboration highlighting the
issue of homelessness in the Bay Area. On Wednesday, June 29, more than
70 news organizations, including KQED, have come together to ask some
crucial questions: Why do we seem to be seeing so many more individuals
living in tents on our streets? What is being done to address the
growing housing affordability and availability crisis? See all KQED’s
coverage here <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>. /

Explore: Housing <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>, News
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/news/>, homelessness
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/homelessness/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/how-san-francisco-and-la-are-addressing-homelessness/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/how-san-francisco-and-la-are-addressing-homelessness/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/how-san-francisco-and-la-are-addressing-homelessness/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/how-san-francisco-and-la-are-addressing-homelessness/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/how-san-francisco-and-la-are-addressing-homelessness/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/how-san-francisco-and-la-are-addressing-homelessness/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

1 Comment
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/how-san-francisco-and-la-are-addressing-homelessness/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related

Tent Cities Compete With Super Bowl City for Attention

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/02/02/tent-cities-compete-with-super-bowl-city-for-attention>

Skid Row in Los Angeles: A City Within a City

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2015/04/07/skid-row-in-los-angeles-a-city-within-a-city>

S.F. Homeless Problem Looks the Same as It Did 20 Years Ago

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/endless-efforts-meager-results>

Efforts Continue to Clear Homeless Encampments in the Mission

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/10/07/efforts-continue-to-clear-homeless-encampments-in-the-mission/>

Skid Row Land Rush: Now It's One of the Pricier Sections of L.A.

<http://dev.kqed.org/news/2015/04/23/skid-row-land-rush-now-its-one-of-the-pricier-sections-of-l-a>

Homelessness in San Francisco's Mission: A Neighborhood View

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/07/12/homelessness-in-san-franciscos-mission-a-neighborhood-view/>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


    Author


      Stephanie Martin Taylor

Stephanie Martin is a radio news reporter and anchor, and an occasional
host of the /KQED Newsroom /television program. While she currently
focuses on housing and development issues, she has also reported on
topics ranging  from state and local politics to religion to arts and
culture.

Prior to joining KQED in 2005, Stephanie was an anchor and reporter for
WFDD, the NPR affiliate in Winston-Salem, NC. She also spent several
years as a television anchor, reporter and producer at various stations
around the country.

Stephanie has received numerous awards for her reporting, including two
National Headliner Awards, the Religion Newswriters Association's Best
Radio Reporting Award and honors from the Associated Press and the Radio
and Television Digital News Association. A series she produced from Iraq
in 2005 earned a Best of Radio Award from the Society of Professional
Journalists.

Stephanie received a graduate degree in Journalism from Columbia
University. As an undergraduate at Colgate University, she worked and
studied in Paris and Dijon, France, and spent a summer interning in the
White House Press Office.

Stephanie grew up in Dallas, TX, and now lives with her husband in San
Francisco.

View all posts by this author <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/smartin/>


    Author


      Steven Cuevas

Steven is the California Report’s Los Angeles bureau chief.

He reports on an array of issues across the Southland, from immigration
and regional politics to religion, the performing arts and pop culture.

Prior to joining KQED in 2012, Steven covered Inland southern California
for KPCC in Pasadena. He also helped establish the first newsroom at KUT
<http://kut.org/> in Austin, Texas where he was a general assignment
reporter.

Steven has received numerous awards for his reporting including an RTNDA
Edward R. Murrow Award for investigative reporting in addition to awards
from the LA Press Club, the Associated Press and the Society for
Professional Journalists.

Steven grew up in and around San Francisco and now lives in Pasadena
just a short jog from the foot of the San Gabriel Mountains.

View all posts by this author <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/scuevas/>


  Post navigation

Prev Searching for the Hows, Whats and Whys of Homelessness

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/searching-for-the-hows-whats-and-whys-of-homelessness/>
Next Homelessness More Complex Since San Jose Shut Down 'The Jungle'

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/homelessness-more-complex-since-san-jose-shut-down-the-jungle/>



  About The California Report

The California Report provides daily coverage of news and culture
throughout the state.

  * Contributors <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/contributors/>
  * Contact <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/contact-the-california-report/>
  * Tune In <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tune-in/>


  About KQED

  * About <http://www.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://www.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://www.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://www.kqed.org/about/help/index.jsp>


  Support for The California Report is Provided By

  * Eric and Wendy Schmidt <http://www.theschmidt.org/>
  * The California Endowment <http://www.calendow.org/>
  * California HealthCare Foundation <http://www.chcf.org/>
  * Rowbotham <http://www.rowbotham.com/>
  * The Westly Foundation <http://www.westly.org/> 



  * The James Irvine Foundation <http://www.irvine.org/>
  * Barracuda Networks <https://www.barracuda.com/>
  * Blach Construction <http://www.blach.com/>
  * Digital Foundry <http://www.digitalfoundry.com/>
  * Wharton San Francisco <http://sf.wharton.upenn.edu/> 

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

[blank image]
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.


  Get the facts!

Close

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil
:)
