Home <http://sfpublicpress.org/>

SIGN UP FOR OUR
E-NEWSLETTER

<http://sfpublicpress.org/newsletter> a
<http://twitter.com/sfpublicpress> b
<http://www.facebook.com/SFPublicPress> ,
<http://sfpublicpress.org/news/feed> z <http://sfpublicpress.tumblr.com/>


      BECOME A MEMBER

DONATE TO THE PUBLIC PRESS

<http://sfpublicpress.org/membership>

  * Special Reports

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/special-reports>
      o Election 2016

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/election2016>
      o Campaign Finance

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/costofvotes>
      o The Cost of Living Here

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/costofliving>
      o Election 2015

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/election2015>
      o Sea Level Rise

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/searise>
      o School Diversity

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/schooldiversity>
      o Homelessness

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/homelessness>
      o Housing Solutions

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/housingsolutions>
      o Public Schools

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/publicschools>
      o Workforce Development

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/workforce>
      o Climate Change

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/climate>
      o Minimum Wage

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/minimumwage>
      o Earthquakes

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/earthquakes>
      o Domestic Violence

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/domesticviolence>
      o Bay Area Smart Growth

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/smartgrowth>
      o Human Trafficking

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/trafficking>
      o Healthy SF: Who Pays?

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/healthy-sf>
      o Better Budget

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/better-budget>
      o Media Meltdown

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/media-meltdown>
      o Muni

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/special-reports/muni>
      o City Budget Watchdog

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/special-reports/city-budget-watchdog>
      o Treasure Island

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/special-reports/treasure-island>
      o Bay Bridge

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/special-reports/bay-bridge>
  * BUY THE PAPER

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/where-to-buy-the-newspaper>
  * BACK ISSUES

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/back-issues>
  * ARCHIVES

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/archives>
  * ABOUT

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/about>
  * BLOG

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/blog>
  * CONTACT

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/contact>
  * DONATE

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/donate>


  How Media Coverage on Homelessness Falls Short (And What Reporters Can
  Do About It)

 421 173Google +0 0 5
By 
Hye-Jin Kim <http://sfpublicpress.org/members/hye-jin-kim> and Meka
Boyle <http://sfpublicpress.org/members/meka-boyle>
San Francisco Public Press
 — Jun 22 2016 - 8:00am

In many newsrooms, “the homeless” is a well-worn catchphrase for the
often-anonymous people on the street or in shelters.

But many professionals who work with these populations on a daily basis
find the term offensive and misleading.

“People shouldn’t be defined by their housing status,” said Jeff
Kositsky, director of the city’s newDepartment of Homelessness and
Supportive Housing
<http://sfmayor.org/index.aspx?recordid=1153&page=846>. “We don’t walk
around and call people ‘the opulently housed,’ so I don’t think we
should be calling people ‘the homeless.’”

In an effort to increase media awareness and sensitivity, the
Renaissance Journalism Center <http://renjournalism.org/> and
the Community and Media Lab <http://journalism.sfsu.edu/> at San
Francisco State University organized a June 10 briefing on homelessness
in the Bay Area. Local journalists heard from 21 panelists with years of
experience in a variety of fields including affordable housing and
public health. Kositsky, who was five days into his new job, was invited
to speak on behalf of Mayor Ed Lee.

The session, held at the Mechanics’ Institute in the Financial District,
was a precursor to the June 29 blitz of homelessness coverage in the Bay
Area by more than 50 local and national news organizations to call
attention to the increasingly visible crisis.

The panel stressed the importance of providing readers, viewers and
listeners with enough historical context, recognizing the complexities
of the issues and explaining programs in depth, not just citing their
successes or failures.

The take-aways included eight key reporting tips:


    1. Avoid stereotyping homeless people

Reporters should “give respect to the issue at hand by contextualizing
the problem, describing its complexity and history, not just a story of
cynical caricatures,” said Martha Ryan, executive director of the
Homeless Prenatal Program <http://www.homelessprenatal.org/>.

Even among federal agencies, there are multiple definitions of
homelessness
<https://www.nhchc.org/faq/official-definition-homelessness/>. But even
so, not everyone who needs stable housing can be categorized.

For example, quasi-homeless immigrant families who live out of their
cars, or in make-shift housing units usually in the back of garages and
yards: “How are they factored into the overall homeless population?”
asked Sonny Le, an instructor for the Non-Profit Management program
<https://cel.sfsu.edu/nonprofit> at San Francisco State.

The panel also emphasized the need for readers to “empathize with,
rather than exoticize” those who lack stable housing.

“This is us, it’s us!” said Damon Francis, interim medical director of
Alameda County Health Care for the Homeless
<http://www.acphd.org/hchp.aspx>. “We should be asking, ‘what happened
to you?’ not ‘what’s wrong with you?’”


    2. Shed light on those who are ‘invisible’

Homeless families and youth are invisible to government agencies,
according to Ryan. Mothers often do not report their status out of fear
that their children will be taken away.

For families, “Housing is key, but services matter,” Ryan said.

While poverty is often a major contributor, many homeless families wind
up on the streets to escape violent situations at home.

“Domestic violence is a huge cause of family homelessness,” she said.

Matt Bartek, program manager of Haight Street Referral Center
<http://larkinstreetyouth.org/haight-street-referral-center/>, said
homeless youth under the age of 18 do not reveal their true ages because
they are afraid they will be placed back with their parents or the state
institutions they fled from.

Many youth that come through the outreach center on Haight Street for
housing, food, and job assistance frequently wait in limbo until they
turn 18 and become eligible for housing programs.

By the time many of the youth Bartek works with apply for housing
programs (Bartek said the wait can be anywhere from three to six years),
they have incurred too many citations from the strong enforcement of
sit-lie laws in the Haight
<http://www.sfgate.com/news/article/Sit-lie-law-primarily-enforced-in-Haight-3763521.php>
to be eligible for many of the options. This contributes to the cycle of
homelessness, he said.


    3. Explain why a racial disparity exists

Thirty-six percent of those who are homeless are black, while they make
up only 7 percent of the overall population, according to the San
Francisco Homeless Count Report in 2015
<https://sfgov.org/lhcb/sites/sfgov.org.lhcb/files/2015%20San%20Francisco%20Homeless%20Count%20%20Report_0.pdf>.

But why such a disparity?

“We can’t keep reporting and talking about homelessness without
explaining race,” said Dr. Margot Kushel, a professor of medicine at the
University of California-San Francisco. “San Francisco has a tiny
African-American community, but if you walked into our shelters it
doesn’t look like a tiny African-American community.”

Black families struggled to accumulate wealth during the 20th century
amid racist banking policies, exclusionary zoning rules and workplace
discrimination. During the post-war housing boom of the 1950s, black
families could not receive government subsidies to buy a home. More
likely to lack intergenerational wealth, African-Americans have a harder
time paying for housing.

And systemic racism continues to haunt the streets. Recent studies from
the book Evicted showed that black applicants are less likely to receive
offers of affordable-housing offers than white applicants with worse
credentials.

“This is where racism hits the road,” Kushel said.


    4. Learn some history of U.S. welfare programs

Historical context is what reporters habitually skim over in a rush to
identify the newest problem. But homelessness as we know it today is a
relatively new phenomenon, said Stacy Murphy, a research director at
California Housing Partnership Corporation <http://chpc.net/>. This
partnership aims to increase the number of affordable housing units
statewide.

From 1980 to 2005, the United States lost 4.5 million manufacturing
jobs. As blue-collar jobs were exported overseas, it produced a deep
economic vulnerability among working-class Americans. Simultaneous
welfare cuts
<http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2015/03/the-forgotten-1980s-rule-thats-hurting-poor-families-savings/387373/>
by the Reagan administration in the 1980s allowed many to slip from the
middle class onto the streets. In California, 23 out of 100 families
living below the poverty line have access to welfare, Murphy said, and
affordable housing has declined 66.5 percent since 2008, the beginning
of the Great Recession.

“While Reagan’s welfare cuts exacerbated the issue, the housing crisis
was created primarily by federal and state retreats from investments in
affordable housing that has been going on since Jimmy Carter was in the
White House,” Kositsky said. “People like to blame Ronald Reagan, but it
actually started in the late ’70s, before Reagan took office.”

“Every story should include the information from the first 15 minutes of
Stacy Murphy’s presentation,” Francis said.


    5. Keep in mind the city’s criminalization policy

San Francisco has a history of laws criminalizing homelessness
<http://www.cohsf.org/Punishing.pdf>. From the 1981 ban on sleeping in
parks to the sit-lie law enacted in 2010, panelists said the city’s
big-stick policies have failed to address the problem.

This policy of criminalization continues to trap people in the “cycle of
homelessness,” Bartek said.

In San Francisco, 90 percent of citations go unpaid
<http://www.streetsheet.org/?p=1689>, resulting in a warrant. Multiple
warrants lead to jail time and a criminal record. This makes it
difficult to find a job and save money for permanent housing.

“Police citations perpetuate homelessness,” said Chris Herring, a
doctoral candidate at the University of California-Berkeley focusing on
the causes of poverty and homelessness in U.S. cities.

One study
<http://wraphome.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/NVL-Update-2016_Final.pdf>,
from UC-Berkeley, revealed that San Francisco has the most vagrancy laws
among the 58 most populated cities in California. The San Francisco
Police Department has 23 officers employed full-time to enforce the
city’s sit-lie laws and “shuffle homeless people around,” said Herring.
In about 90 percent of the cases, “people remained in public spaces,
around the corner or across the street.”

Though Kositsky from the mayor’s office agreed that arresting homeless
people and “just moving them around” was not a “common sense” solution,
he said the same of allowing people to build shelters on the sidewalks.

“Saying it’s OK for people to have encampments in the street — that we
should just allow that to be the new normal — that’s not common sense,"
he said. "The citizens of the city who are housed are not going to
tolerate this to go on indefinitely.”


    6. Recognize stable housing is crucial to mental health

Mental illness can be both the cause and the result of homelessness.

In 1963, the Community Mental Health Act replaced public psychiatric
institutions with community-based service providers. But many
communities were not prepared for the influx of patients and following
the Reagan administration’s welfare cuts in the 1981, most lacked the
funding and the infrastructure to provide adequate care.

According to the 2015 city report on homelessness
<https://sfgov.org/lhcb/sites/sfgov.org.lhcb/files/2015%20San%20Francisco%20Homeless%20Count%20%20Report_0.pdf>,
35 percent of those living on the streets suffer from psychiatric and
emotional conditions.

“The mentally impaired and disabled should be the responsibility of the
federal government,” said Dr. Joshua Bamberger, a clinical professor in
the Department of Family Medicine at UCSF who has also worked for the
San Francisco Department of Public Health since 1991.

Displacement can also exacerbate mental illness. For the chronically
homeless — or anyone who has lived on the streets for more than a year
according to one federal definition — the numbers are even higher, at 55
percent.

“Why do we draw a line between developmental disabilities and mental
disabilities and illnesses?” Bamberger asked, noting that laws are in
place to prevent those with developmental disabilities from ending up on
the streets.


    7. Recognize stable housing is crucial to primary care

“Homelessness is devastating to health,” said Kushel of UCSF. “Chronic
diseases are difficult to care for when people are homeless. How can you
keep your insulin in a refrigerator, plug your sleep-apnea machine into
the wall, when you’re homeless?”

She added that with or without contributing health issues, people who
live on the streets age much faster than those with a roof over their heads.

“When you see 52, think 78,” Kushel said.

Along with premature aging, homeless people also have a much shorter
life expectancy.

“People are dying on the streets, and they’re dying quickly,” said
Kushel, adding that it doesn't matter whether they have been on the
streets for three years or 30.


    8. Focus on solutions, not just problems

The media were criticized for being too cynical in their coverage of
local responses to homelessness.

“Another news article that just says, ‘They’re not doing enough,’ is so
defeatist,” said Francis.

Instead of focusing on what’s not working, journalists should ask what
is working and how it could be scaled up — what the Solutions Journalism
Network <http://solutionsjournalism.org/> refers to as “positive deviants.”

“Exposing the problem isn’t always enough. People and society need ways
to respond,” said Rikha Sharma Rani, a freelance writer and a director
at the Solutions Journalism Network. “The key question to ask should be,
‘Who’s doing this better? And how?’”

Solutions-based reporting sets benchmarks for what is and is not
possible to hold people accountable for solving the problem to the best
of their capabilities. One example cited was Tina Rosenberg’s article
<http://www.nytimes.com/library/magazine/home/20010128mag-aids.html> on
how health care laws in Brazil made H.I.V. medications the most
accessible and affordable in the world.

“This is not advocacy,” Rani said. “It takes away the excuse for
nonperformance.

See also: 

Bay Area Journalists Tackle Homelessness, Together
<http://solutionsjournalism.org/bay-area-journalists-tackle-homelessness-together/?utm_source=Solutions+Journalism+Network&utm_campaign=b5070ef264-June_23_non_members6_23_2016&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_fbf8516aa5-b5070ef264-421013393&mc_cid=b5070ef264&mc_eid=868bc63f9e> (from
Solutions Journalism Network, 6/14/16)

 

http://solutionsjournalism.org/bay-area-journalists-tackle-homelessness-together/?utm_source=Solutions+Journalism+Network&utm_campaign=b5070ef264-June_23_non_members6_23_2016&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_fbf8516aa5-b5070ef264-421013393&mc_cid=b5070ef264&mc_eid=868bc63f9e
*Filed in:*

  * Government <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/civics/government>
  * Housing <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/streetscape/housing>
  * Public health <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/health/public-health>
  * Wealth & poverty
    <http://sfpublicpress.org/category/topics/econ/wealth-poverty>
  * Civil & human rights
    <http://sfpublicpress.org/category/topics/diversity/civil-human-rights>
  * San Francisco <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/san-francisco>
  * Homelessness <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/homelessness>
  * African-Americans <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/tags/african-americans>
  * Alameda County <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/tags/alameda-county>
  * Damon Francis <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/tags/damon-francis>
  * Department of Homelessness and Supportive Housing
    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/tags/department-of-homelessness-and-supportive-housing>
  * Haight Street Referral Center
    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/tags/haight-street-referral-center>
  * homelessness <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/tags/homelessness>
  * housing <http://sfpublicpress.org/category/tags/housing>
  * Jeff Kositsky <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/tags/jeff-kositsky>
  * jobs <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/tags/jobs>
  * mental health <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/tags/mental-health>
  * poverty <http://sfpublicpress.org/category/tags/poverty>
  * racial <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/tags/racial>
  * racism <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/tags/racism>
  * Renaissance Journalism Center
    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/tags/renaissance-journalism-center>
  * San Francisco State University
    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/tags/san-francisco-state-university>
  * sit-lie <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/tags/sit-lie>
  * substance abuse <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/tags/substance-abuse>

  *
  * Printer-friendly versionPrinter-friendly version
    <http://sfpublicpress.org/print/news/2016-06/how-media-coverage-on-homelessness-falls-short-and-what-reporters-can-do-about-it>

<http://sfpublicpress.org/files/news/160622_jeff.jpg>

“People shouldn’t be defined by their housing status," Jeff Kositsky,
director of the city’s new Department of Homelessness and Supportive
Housing, told a media briefing at the Mechanics’ Institute. Photo by
Hyunha Kim / San Francisco Public Press


    More Homelessness Coverage

The Public Press is participating in a weeklong collaboration among
dozens of news organizations focusing on solutions to homelessness. Read
more on Twitter <https://twitter.com/bayareahomeless> and Facebook
<https://www.facebook.com/sfhomelessproject>.

How Media Coverage on Homelessness Falls Short (And What Reporters Can
Do About It)
<http://sfpublicpress.org/news/2016-06/how-media-coverage-on-homelessness-falls-short-and-what-reporters-can-do-about-it> 
|  June 22, 2016 

Change of Address: Voices Humanize Homelessness
<http://sfpublicpress.org/news/2016-06/change-of-address-portraying-homelessness-with-humanity> 
|  June 29, 2016

Homeless Lose Economic Opportunity as Goodwill Flagship Store Closes
<http://sfpublicpress.org/news/2016-06/homeless-bid-goodwill-flagship-goodbye> 
|  June 29, 2016


    Previous Homelessness Reporting From the Public Press

The fall 2014 cover story on homelessness
<http://sfpublicpress.org/homelessness> examines in detail the
challenges of wrangling a social service bureaucracy split between the
city's health and human services agencies, with articles and
infographics. Other articles explore evictions from supportive housing
programs, the transformation of the jail into the city’s biggest mental
health facility, a special court meant to prevent that, and a graphic
novel story depicting holes in the social safety net.  |
 http://sfpublicpress.org/homelessness


    See Also:

Public Press Executive Director Michael Stoll discusses media coverage
of homelessness on “Your Call” on KALW-FM
<http://kalw.org/post/your-call-media-coverage-homelessness#stream/0>  |
 May 19, 2016


    Read more


    About the Author

Meka Boyle's picture <http://sfpublicpress.org/members/meka-boyle>
Meka Boyle <http://sfpublicpress.org/members/meka-boyle>

Editorial intern and student San Francisco State University, reporting
from the Bay Area.
Contact me at mboyle@sfpublicpress.org

Hye-Jin Kim's picture <http://sfpublicpress.org/members/hye-jin-kim>
Hye-Jin Kim <http://sfpublicpress.org/members/hye-jin-kim>

Hye-Jin Kim is an editorial intern for the Public Press. She is an
anthropology major at Middlebury College and a features editor for The
Middlebury Campus. She has also reported for the West Windsor-Plainsboro
News in New Jersey.


    Latest news

  *
    Major S.F. Bayfront Developments Advance Despite Sea Rise Warnings

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/searise/2015-07/major-sf-bayfront-developments-advance-despite-sea-rise-warnings>

  *
    Mission Bay Pioneers: Working and Living in a New Waterfront
    Neighborhood

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/searise/2015-07/mission-bay-pioneers>
  *
    Four Ways to Guard Against Sea Level Rise

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/searise/2015-07/four-ways-to-guard-against-sea-level-rise>

  *
    Bay Area Governments Study Sea Level Rise, but Few Set Limits on
    Development

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/searise/2015-07/bay-area-governments-study-sea-level-rise-but-few-set-limits-on-development>

  *
    With Dozens of Local and Regional Governments, Baywide Planning Is Hard

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/searise/2015-07/with-dozens-of-local-and-regional-governments-baywide-planning-is-hard>

  *
    Experts Weigh In on Sea Level Rise

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/searise/2015-07/experts-weigh-in-on-sea-level-rise>


Search this site:

HOME <http://sfpublicpress.org/> | ABOUT
<http://sfpublicpress.org/about> | BLOG <http://sfpublicpress.org/blog>
| INTERNSHIPS <http://sfpublicpress.org/internships> | CONTACT US
<http://sfpublicpress.org/contact>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

44 Page St.
<https://maps.google.com/maps?oe=utf-8&q=44+page+street+san+francisco&ie=UTF-8&hq=&hnear=0x8085809f04850561:0xe6748c1bddec79a0,44+Page+St,+San+Francisco,+CA+94102&gl=us&ei=WH3UUJqsNsXF0AGL9ICgDw&ved=0CDcQ8gEwAQ> Suite
504, San Francisco, CA 94102  |  (415) 495-7377

The San Francisco Public Press is a 501(c)3 nonprofit
organization. Donations <http://sfpublicpress.org/donate> are tax
deductible to the extent allowed by law. We have received funding from
national and local foundations and more than 500 individuals.

     <http://fij.org/>     
<http://inn.org/> <http://www.knightfoundation.org/>     <http://sff.org/>

