Top highlight
Timeline <https://timeline.com/?source=logo-lo_c9c5f5ebb63f---cf5a12c2a7ad>
Follow
<https://twitter.com/Timeline_Now><https://facebook.com/timelinenews>
Sign in / Sign up
<https://medium.com/m/signin?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Ftimeline.com%2Fhow-americas-homeless-went-from-mobile-work-force-to-urban-blight-ae9d2acb159f>
Next story


        The humiliation of the American father

<https://timeline.com/american-dads-joke-96e4df43f471?source=read_next_metabar----------44>
44
2

  * Share
  *
    44

  *
*

Go to the profile of Nina Renata Aron

<https://timeline.com/@black_metallic?source=post_header_lockup>
Nina Renata Aron
<https://timeline.com/@black_metallic?source=post_header_lockup>BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Timeline News
Jun 29

------------------------------------------------------------------------


  How America’s homeless went from mobile work force to urban blight


    Once, they were just individuals with nowhere to live

Illustration by Christopher Dang!
<https://medium.com/u/6d39a72db9bd>/Timeline, Inc,

by /Nina Renata Aron/ <https://medium.com/@black_metallic>

Before there was “the homeless,” there were just people without places
to live. They were Gold Rush fortune seekers, hobos and vagrants,
“freaks” and free spirits. They were outcasts: anarchists, alcoholics,
drug addicts, and “insane” people. These itinerants — or, depending on
how you see it, incorrigibles — have been a formative part of the
American story. But over time, the way our culture treats and regards
them has changed. Somewhere along the way, we stopped thinking of them
as individuals without dwellings and started thinking of them as “the
homeless:” a largely undifferentiated mass often rendered in reductive
terms. They are a social ill—a “scourge,” a “blight,” a “crisis.” And
yet whenever we try to come up with systemic solutions, the individual
reappears, and we justify the problem by chalking it up to mental
illness, substance abuse, or laziness.

We are no longer surprised by homelessness. In 2016, an American city
without//sleeping bodies on its streets is virtually unimaginable. But
most of us, stepping over those bodies on our way to work or home, just
keep walking. We feel there isn’t anything we can do. How did we get
here? How did something so shocking become invisible?

Nearly everyone agrees that it has something to do with Ronald Reagan,
“the Great Communicator.” When he became governor of California in 1967,
Reagan continued the aggressive deinstitutionalization initiated by his
predecessor Edmund G. Brown, nearly emptying state mental hospitals by
the early 1970s. Vietnam veterans were returning in large numbers,
traumatized and in many cases addicted to drugs. In the absence of
effective local care, many of them also ended up on the streets.

Later, as president, Reagan vilified the urban poor, popularized the
racist term “welfare queen,” and slashed
<http://www.democracynow.org/2004/6/11/reagan_and_the_homeless_epidemic_in>
the Department of Housing and Urban Development budget — the primary
supplier of low-income housing subsidies — from $32 billion in 1981 to
$7.5 billion by 1988. He also cut federal assistance to local
governments, funding for public transit, and anti-poverty programming.
More low-income housing was
<https://books.google.com/books?id=FmkUBAAAQBAJ&pg=PA122&lpg=PA122&dq=skid+rows+razed+1980s&source=bl&ots=ggskwT-Ahp&sig=Ml6vZGzICFmoRFTxM9AduKT8vFg&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwim37-H3rzNAhVT2GMKHXg8CVcQ6AEIODAE#v=onepage&q=skid%20rows%20razed%201980s&f=false>
being torn down than being built. Urban poverty, violence, and
decrepitude reached their nadir. The homeless population ballooned.

Illustration by Christopher Dang! <https://medium.com/u/6d39a72db9bd>,
Animation by Kyle Victory <https://medium.com/u/c4b763c7f881>

Like many conservatives, Reagan believed that homelessness was a choice.
“One problem we’ve had,” he said
<http://www.nytimes.com/1988/12/23/us/reagan-on-homelessness-many-choose-to-live-in-the-streets.html>
in a 1988 interview, “even in the best of times . . . is the people who
are sleeping on the grates, the homeless who are homeless, you might
say, by choice.’’ Yes, you might say that — if you disregard entirely
the interplay of structural factors that influence poverty and access to
opportunity.

Reagan may have also been drawing, if even unwittingly, on an abiding
American fantasy. In fact, the idea that people are “homeless by choice”
has a long history here. There’s even some truth to it. The rugged
romance of the rootless wanderer is woven into many other, more
triumphant narratives of Americanness. It’s tough to disentangle it from
the defiance that characterized the very founding of the country, not to
mention the promise of Manifest Destiny, the roar of the railroad, the
folk heroism of countless frontiersmen, migrant unionizers, “Okies,” and
sailors — and, later, the exhilarating freedom offered by the interstate
highway system, that “open road.”

Many 19th century hobos were actually peripatetic Civil War vets seeking
short-term employment. They worked in industrial factories in Cleveland
or Chicago in springtime, moved on to berry farms in Oklahoma in summer,
and then the orange groves of California and the lumberyards of the
Pacific Northwest in the fall.

And though some saw them as bums, they were largely a mobile labor
class. A /New York Times /article
<http://timesmachine.nytimes.com/timesmachine/1923/08/19/105108277.html?pageNumber=135>
from 1923 describes a shift in the popular understanding of the hobo. No
longer simply “the bedraggled individual of motion pictures, brother to
the porch climber, or…the comic hobo of the Sunday supplement fleeing
from the snapping jaws of a watchdog,” the hobo class were a “floating
fraternity,” according to
<http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4364434/> one sociologist.
They were “young and virile,” motivated, and highly employable. Some
even attended Hobo Colleges in New York and Chicago, where they
exchanged hygiene and safety tips and listened to lectures on political
theory.

Unsurprisingly, some of those who chose the traveling life were
socialists or anarchists. For them, wandering was a political act, a
disavowal of social norms. Some were artists or artisans, or at least
hung out with grungy creatives in the cities they visited. The term
“Hobohemia” was used by Sinclair Lewis in 1917 to describe the tousled
nonconformity of low-rent urban districts, and it later appeared in the
1937 standard “The Lady Is a Tramp” (“My Hobohemia is the place to be”).

In his 1960 essay “The Vanishing American Hobo,” Jack Kerouac traces a
cultural history of vagrancy as self-reliance, a lineage from Jesus to
the Bowery. He laments the heavy policing of “hoboing,” arguing that
central to American identity is “a definite special idea of footwalking
freedom going back to the days of Jim Bridger and Johnny Appleseed.”

But that was 1960. And Kerouac was a handsome white guy with little
reason to be wary of cops.

Illustration by Christopher Dang! <https://medium.com/u/6d39a72db9bd>,
Animation by Kyle Victory <https://medium.com/u/c4b763c7f881>

By the 1980s, threadbare tents dotted city streets. Highway overpasses
served as makeshift shelter from the elements. Entire families lived in
cars. Drug addicts used freely in neighborhoods that had fallen into
seemingly terminal disrepair. The late-stage hobos that urban dwellers
were used to, “grizzled, single, white, older alcoholic men
who…circulated between flophouses and missions in the nation’s Skid
Rows,” according to
<http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4364434/> historian Marian
Moser Jones, were joined by many, many more women, children,
African-Americans and people with mental illness. Homelessness had
become a fact of urban life.

And “homeless” as a classification of Americans started to ossify. As
Jones argues, social scientists, many federally funded through the
National Institute of Mental Health, developed a science of homelessness
in the 1980s. The assumptions implicit in that first generation of
research — namely, individual-level analysis of the homeless with a
heavy focus on mental illness and substance abuse — have carried through
to today. As is so often the case, those who set out to study a
phenomenon ended up defining it. The result has been “a long legacy of
sociological research that focused on the individual and cultural
pathology of the poor rather than on the economic and political causes
of poverty.”

Many people now understand that the “choice” to be homeless isn’t really
a choice at all. It is, at the least, relative. And always influenced by
many other factors: race, class, gender and sexuality, to name just a
few. Still, we don’t know quite how to understand it. And lack of
consensus around the causes and characteristics of homelessness extend
well beyond the general public to advocates and officials and even to
homeless people themselves. One need only read one of many modern-day
ethnographies (Teresa Gowan’s /Hobos, Hustlers & Backsliders/ and
Jeffrey Schonberg and Philippe Bourgois’s /Righteous Dopefiend, /both
about San Francisco, are two of the best) to understand//that homeless
individuals, in Gowan’s words, have “profoundly dissonant perspectives”
on their own circumstances. The on-the-ground reality of “the life” is
complex, nuanced, ever-evolving, and above all, different for everyone.

Illustration by Christopher Dang! <https://medium.com/u/6d39a72db9bd>,
Animation by Kyle Victory <https://medium.com/u/c4b763c7f881>

The US has been dangerously slow in figuring out how to grapple
seriously with the structural factors that result in — perhaps even
build in — homeless populations. And the more “the homeless” has
solidified as a category in the American imagination, the more inertia
seems to have set in, both politically and socially. Increasingly, we
talk about homelessness not through the idiom of motion — transience,
wandering, seeking — but of immobility. It’s a stubborn, intractable
problem that seems to go nowhere. In spite of narratives that
individualize the problem of homelessness, we seem collectively unable
to reckon with the diversity and the humanity of the homeless. In the
unfortunate story we now tell ourselves, they are a vast hopeless
collective of hopeless individuals.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<http://eepurl.com/bErIAj>

    Connect with us on — Facebook
    <https://www.facebook.com/timelinenews> • Twitter
    <https://twitter.com/timeline_now> • Medium <http://medium.com/timeline>

Homeless <https://timeline.com/tagged/homeless?source=post>Poverty
<https://timeline.com/tagged/poverty?source=post>SFHomelessProject
<https://timeline.com/tagged/sfhomelessproject?source=post>
44
2
#
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Go to the profile of Nina Renata Aron

<https://timeline.com/@black_metallic?source=footer_card>


      Nina Renata Aron <https://timeline.com/@black_metallic>

Timeline News

#
Follow
Timeline

<https://timeline.com/?source=footer_card>


      Timeline <https://timeline.com/?source=footer_card>

News in Context

<https://timeline.com/stilyagi-dance-soviet-communism-99b1fb644448?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-44>
More from Nina Renata Aron
These teens danced in the face of Soviet Communism

<https://timeline.com/stilyagi-dance-soviet-communism-99b1fb644448?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-44>
Go to the profile of Nina Renata Aron

<https://timeline.com/@black_metallic>
Nina Renata Aron
<https://timeline.com/@black_metallic?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-44>
47
<https://timeline.com/reagans-toxic-legacy-7d1d88200df4?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Also tagged SFHomelessProject
Reagan’s toxic legacy

<https://timeline.com/reagans-toxic-legacy-7d1d88200df4?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Go to the profile of Hanne Elisabeth Tidnam

<https://timeline.com/@hanne_tidnam>
Hanne Elisabeth Tidnam
<https://timeline.com/@hanne_tidnam?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
3
<https://brightreads.com/its-ok-to-sit-down-and-think-a98752e57133?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Also tagged SFHomelessProject
“It’s OK to Sit Down and Think”

<https://brightreads.com/its-ok-to-sit-down-and-think-a98752e57133?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Go to the profile of Arjanna van der Plas

<https://brightreads.com/@arjannavanderplas>
Arjanna van der Plas
<https://brightreads.com/@arjannavanderplas?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
7
Responses
Write a response…
Unknown user
No responses yet
Show all responses

×

Don’t miss Nina Renata Aron’s next story
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Nina Renata AronNina Renata Aron
