From /The Atlantic/


  CityLab

<http://www.citylab.com/>
Menu <#>

  * Commute <http://www.citylab.com/commute/>
  * Work <http://www.citylab.com/work/>
  * Housing <http://www.citylab.com/housing/>
  * Weather <http://www.citylab.com/weather/>
  * Crime <http://www.citylab.com/crime/>
  * Politics <http://www.citylab.com/politics/>
  * Design <http://www.citylab.com/design/>
  * Tech <http://www.citylab.com/tech/>

  * Navigator

    <http://www.citylab.com/navigator/>
  * CityFixer

    <http://www.citylab.com/cityfixer/>
  * Maps

    <http://www.citylab.com/posts/maps/>
  * Photos

    <http://www.citylab.com/posts/photos/>
  * Videos

    <http://www.citylab.com/posts/videos/>
  * Search

    <http://www.citylab.com/search/>
  *
      o

        <https://www.facebook.com/thisiscitylab>
      o

        <https://twitter.com/CityLab>
      o

        <https://www.linkedin.com/company/citylab-com>
      o

        <http://www.citylab.com/feeds/posts/>


    Ads are being blocked

For us to continue writing great stories, we need to display ads.

Un-block

<#blocker-msg-whitelist> Learn more

<http://www.citylab.com/faq/#21>
Back


    Whitelist

Please select the extension that is blocking ads.

Ad Block Plus

Ghostery

uBlock

Other Blockers

Back


Please follow the steps below


  Could Supervised Injections Help San Francisco's Homeless Drug Users?

Cities across the U.S. are pondering legalized, sterile street-drug
injection sites to fight the overdose epidemic.

  * John Metcalfe <http://www.citylab.com/authors/john-metcalfe/>
  * @citycalfe <https://twitter.com/intent/user?screen_name=citycalfe>
  * Jun 29, 2016
  * 4 Comments <#disqus_thread>

  *
  * Share on Facebook <#>
  * Tweet <#>
  * <#>
  * <mailto:?subject=Could%20Supervised%20Injections%20Help%20San%20Francisco%27s%20Homeless%20Drug%20Users%3F&body=Cities%20across%20the%20U.S.%20are%20pondering%20legalized%2C%20sterile%20street-drug%20injection%20sites%20to%20fight%20the%20overdose%20epidemic.%0A%0ARead%20More:%0Ahttp%3A//www.citylab.com/housing/2016/06/could-supervised-injection-help-san-franciscos-homeless-drug-users/489086/%3Futm_source%3Deb>
  * <#>

A man shoots heroin he bought on the street at Insite, a
supervised-injection facility in Vancouver, B.C. (The Canadian
Press/Darryl Dyck/AP)

Love CityLab? Make sure you're signed up for our free e-mail newsletter.

A 35-year-old man with a history of mental illness found cold
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/street-life-turns-comfort-zone-casualty/> on
the sidewalk.

ADVERTISING

A 38-year-old man cocooned in a blanket on the street, who neighbors
heard “moaning
<http://ebar.com/blogs/report-homeless-man-died-of-meth-overdose/>”
before going silent.

A 56-year-old woman discovered
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/decade-tracking-homeless-deaths-sf-sheds-light-imperfect-system/>
in an open lot near an underpass. Another woman, age 50, found
unresponsive at a friend’s home. A 32-year-old man who security guards
caught passed out
<http://www.sfweekly.com/sanfrancisco/drugs-heroin-tenderloin-westfield-fentanyl/Content?oid=4209362>
in an upscale shopping mall’s toilets.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Part Of The

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/>


        Read more about it <https://sfhomelessproject.com/>

Go <https://sfhomelessproject.com/>
------------------------------------------------------------------------

These are just a few of the homeless people who recently died from
drug-related causes in San Francisco
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/decade-tracking-homeless-deaths-sf-sheds-light-imperfect-system/>.
They are not the first and won't be the last unhoused drug users to
perish here. Of the 41 homeless deaths the city recorded from December
2014 to November 2015, the number one cause was accidental drug deaths.

The enduring problems of addiction—not just fatal overdoses, but
diseases from dirty needles and the burden on hospitals, first
responders, and families—has more and more city leaders considering a
somewhat radical intervention. It’s called a supervised-injection
facility (SIF), and it has a promising track record in preventing
overdose deaths, reducing public blight, and getting addicts to treatment.

There are already about 100 such sites operating around the globe, from
Vancouver to Sydney to Barcelona. To the best of anyone’s knowledge,
there’s never been a single overdose fatality at any of them. The basic
idea at each is the same: Provide a safe, sterile environment for
addicts to inject their own drugs while connecting them to resources
like addiction doctors, peer counselors, and housing specialists. If a
supervised site were to open in California it would be the first in the
U.S., and that possibility has drug-policy experts, some politicians,
and even the San Francisco Drug Users Union
<http://www.sfdrugusersunion.com/> pumped.

“San Francisco’s open-air drug market is thriving and, with an exploding
homeless population, public injection is in every neighborhood,” emails
Hollis Cambodia of the drug-users union, which is a real organization
and even has an address
<https://www.google.com/maps/place/San+Francisco+Drug+Users'+Union/@37.7831284,-122.4114796,3a,75y,164h,90t/data=!3m7!1e1!3m5!1s9_X2nA1g9j2oCORDp96cew!2e0!6s%2F%2Fgeo3.ggpht.com%2Fcbk%3Fpanoid%3D9_X2nA1g9j2oCORDp96cew%26output%3Dthumbnail%26cb_client%3Dsearch.TACTILE.gps%26thumb%3D2%26w%3D86%26h%3D86%26yaw%3D164.10703%26pitch%3D0!7i13312!8i6656!4m5!3m4!1s0x0:0xc7b3b2309829c4fd!8m2!3d37.7829237!4d-122.4114058!6m1!1e1>
in the Tenderloin. “People are injecting drugs in the city’s streets and
public bathrooms hundreds of times a day. There are overdoses,
complaints, discarded syringes everywhere.”

Opening a supervised facility would slice a “huge percentage” off those
problems, Hollis believes, and so is the morally correct thing to do.
“Anyone who puts up barriers to SIFs is actively engaged in the death of
drug users, actively a part of mothers losing their kids to overdose,
and other terminal health-related issues that cause the deaths of people
who use drugs.”

Syringes lie in the remains of a tent city cleared by city workers this
February in San Francisco. (Eric Risberg/AP)

***

Any mention of SIFs inevitably needs to reference Insite
<http://supervisedinjection.vch.ca/>, the first such facility in Canada
and by many scientific measures a success. Insite is located in Downtown
Eastside Vancouver behind an unguarded storefront—a highly visible
security guard might deter drug users—and when it opens at 9 a.m.
usually has a line around the block.

Serious, long-term users (novices are screened out) who've registered
with Insite enter an “injection room” with mirror-equipped booths
<https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/640/0*Vvtev_gFxMFoTkpD.jpg>. They
pick up clean gear from a nurse's station, go to a booth, and shoot up,
usually with heroin, meth, or cocaine. Then they move to a “chill room”
for 10 to 15 minutes, where they sip coffee and juice while staff
members check for overdoses or delayed reactions. Scattered throughout
the building are addiction specialists, nurses, and representatives from
housing organizations they can chat with for potential help.

Since opening in 2003, Insite has had nearly 3.5 million visits among
18,000 registrants. While it’s seen many cardiac arrests and thousands
of overdoses
<http://supervisedinjection.vch.ca/research/supporting-research/>,
on-location personnel who administer aid and opiate-blocking drugs like
naloxone have kept OD deaths to zero, says Anna Marie D’Angelo, a
spokeswoman for Vancouver Coastal Health.

“When we started this, HIV transmission rates were some of the highest
in the industrial world,” she adds. “Now we have one of the lowest rates
in Canada.”

Above Insite is a detox facility called Onsite. Addicts often live
chaotic lives, especially if they're homeless; barriers to getting clean
range from the serious (mental illness) to the tragically ridiculous
(missing detox appointments because you don't have a clock.) But at
Insite, all they have to do is walk up some stairs and they can be
assigned a private room and bathroom where they can detox.

“We've had successes at Onsite where about 50 percent of people actually
complete the program,” says D’Angelo. “These are people who’ve never
been able to complete one drug-treatment program in their lives.” She
pauses. “I thought it was low percentage, but apparently it’s really
high for that kind of person.”

The facility’s various benefits are chronicled in dozens of
peer-reviewed papers, many of them coauthored by Thomas Kerr. “We found
there was a greater than 30 percent increase in the proportion of people
entering abstinence-based treatments after Insite opened,” says Kerr, a
professor at the University of British Columbia’s medical department.
“We also found the site reduced overdose mortality. And in the
neighborhood around the facility, overdose deaths went down by 35 percent.”

San Francisco, by the city’s own reckoning
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/mayor-ed-lees-opposition-safe-injection-facilities-criticized/>,
has an estimated 6,600 people without stable housing and 22,000 who
inject drugs. It’s unclear how much these groups overlap. In a study
published in 2010
<http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2885552/>, Kerr and others
interviewed about 600 intravenous-drug users in San Francisco and found
the “majority” were homeless. They were also nearly all in support of a
place where they could legally inject. “Eighty-five percent of [users]
reported that they would use a SIF,” according to the study, “three
quarters of whom would use it at least three days per week.”

This finding backs up Kerr's belief that most addicts don’t enjoy
shooting up in public. After all, it can be dangerous. “We know that
people who are homeless often inject alone in secluded, hidden
environments,” he says, “which makes them very difficult to reach with
emergency response in the event of an overdose.”

People who inject in alleys, garages, and the like also tend to do it as
quick as possible to avoid detection or arrest. That means they often
skip steps like not filtering drugs and not rubbing their skin with
alcohol swabs, allowing bacteria to get jammed into their bodies. The
result are gruesome abscesses, sepsis, and infective endocarditis
<http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/endocarditis/basics/definition/con-20022403>,
a quite-deadly heart malady.

“In Vancouver, we’ve shown that the number-one cause of hospital use by
people who inject drugs are these types of infections—abscesses, sepsis,
and the like,” says Kerr. Needles that’ve been inside somebody’s
infected skin are common on certain sidewalks of San Francisco. Could an
SIF help with that nasty nuisance?

Kerr thinks it might. “If you're someone who’s concerned about discarded
syringes in your kid’s schoolyard,” he says, “then what you actually
want is a supervised-injecting site so people have a place to go instead
of the schoolyard.”

A homeless man, not known to be a drug user, shelters from the rain
under a San Francisco freeway in January. (Beck Diefenbach/Reuters)

***

The Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital and Trauma Center has a
special clinic for treating wounds and infections in soft tissue,
including a handful each day caused by shooting drugs (typically oozing
abscesses
<http://www.sfgate.com/health/article/Clinic-nurses-addicts-wounds-S-F-General-2878488.php>).
Will the city ever get a clinic that prevents these wounds in the first
place?

It's not like it hasn't tried. In 2007, Laura Thomas and experts from
Vancouver helped organize a symposium about how an SIF might assuage
local drug woes. “Unfortunately, it got picked up on right-wing talk
radio and sort of batted around as one of these crazy San Francisco
stories,” says Thomas, a deputy state director for the national Drug
Policy Alliance <http://www.drugpolicy.org/supervised-injection-facilities>.

Soon after, South Carolina Republican Senator Jim DeMint announced
<https://www.themarshallproject.org/2015/11/06/is-the-u-s-ready-for-safe-injection-rooms#.NdrSIioc4>
he'd cut off federal funds for San Francisco if it proceeded with
supervised injections. “He didn’t have the ability to do that—it’s the
kind of idle threat that doesn’t actually go anywhere—but it certainly
got people’s attention in San Francisco and led to a freeze on talking
about it,” Thomas says. “No one wanted to court that kind of
controversy, even if it was a well-researched public-health
intervention.” (DeMint had an weird fixation on the Bay Area for someone
2,000 miles away; he later threatened
<http://www.foxnews.com/story/2008/02/02/us-senator-wants-to-revoke-funding-from-city-berkeley-calif-for-vote-to-boot.html>
to revoke millions in earmarks for Berkeley because it balked at opening
a military-recruitment center.)

For proponents of supervised injections in San Francisco, 2016 started
off looking like a year of possibility. First, California State Assembly
member Susan Eggman introduced a bill giving local and state health
jurisdictions the authority to permit legal injections
<http://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=201520160AB2495>.
It failed in committee, but San Francisco Supervisor David Campos picked
up the fight with a proposal to build homeless shelters where alcoholics
could drink and drug users inject with medical supervision.

That also went nowhere, and earned a strong condemnation from Mayor Ed
Lee. “We have a vigorous disagreement over allowing people to inject
heroin and meth,” he chided
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/Bid-to-change-makeup-of-DCCC-and-to-make-it-6878070.php>,
“to literally destroy their bodies and their minds, in a city-funded
shelter, as some have proposed.” (A Campos staffer would not say if he
intends to pursue the supervised-injection idea.)

But unlike a decade ago, the conversation isn't dying. These past few
months have seen the mayor of Ithaca, New York, proposing
<http://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2016/02/24/467958912/ithacas-plan-to-open-a-safe-site-for-heroin-users-faces-legal-hurdles>
a safe-injection site with clean needles and trained staff; Baltimore
lawmakers backing a similar facility
<http://www.baltimoresun.com/news/maryland/politics/bs-md-morhaim-drug-bills-20160205-story.html>
and vying to decriminalize small amounts of narcotics; and a city/county
task force in the Seattle region taking on opiate-overdose deaths, which
have tripled
<http://www.kingcounty.gov/elected/executive/constantine/News/release/2016/March/01-heroin-task-force.aspx>
in King County since 2009. That task force might recommend not just an
injection but “consumption” facility, where crack users could also go.

“We have focused on supervised-consumption spaces, as opposed to
supervised injection,” says Patricia Sully, a staff attorney with
Seattle’s Public Defender Association. “Some of that has to do with
racial-justice implications. We know that crack-cocaine enforcement
really goes with racial disparity in many ways.”

The shift in tone among policymakers comes hand in hand with America’s
unparalleled overdose crisis. In California, for instance, drug overdose
is now the main cause of accidental death. Here’s more from /The
Guardian/
<http://www.theguardian.com/society/ng-interactive/2016/may/25/opioid-epidemic-overdose-deaths-map>:

    Nationally, overdose deaths have more than doubled over the past
    decade and a half, driven largely by opioids—initially prescription
    painkillers, but increasingly heroin.

    Today, more Americans die from drug overdoses than car crashes or
    gun fatalities. In all, drug overdoses killed 47,000 people in the
    US in 2014, the latest year for which data is available. That’s 130
    deaths per day, on average. The majority of those deaths—29,000, or
    80 per day—involved an opioid.

U.S. citizens taught that addicts deserve their fates might be able to
ignore the situation, but from Canada the view is appalling.

“There’s such a strong history of prohibitionist, pro-enforcement drug
policy that has brainwashed the general public and policymakers into
thinking somehow you can criminalize your way out of addiction,” says Kerr.

“The data from the U.S. office of drug control itself shows that while
expenditures on drug-law enforcement have increased in hundreds of
billions of dollars over recent decades, the price of drugs has gone
down, purity has gone up, nothing’s working,” he says. “Now you have a
massive, massive overdose crisis and you desperately need interventions.”

A “new record, five needles within four feet of each other (one not
pictured),” writes the person who took this photo in San Francisco.
“Distance from front door: six feet.” (Eric Molina/Flickr
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/iamagenious/2455682658/in/album-72157604000182602/>)

***

“In some ways this is one of the easier issues I’ve ever worked on,
because the evidence is so overwhelming and so clear,” says Thomas of
the Drug Policy Alliance. “It’s also been one of the hardest issues
because it is a new idea for many people and strikes them often as,
’What? We’re going to let people do /what/?’”

But she thinks the chances are “extremely high” a supervised-injection
site will soon open somewhere in the U.S. It might not be authorized by
city government but more of an underground thing, which in San Francisco
would jibe well with a history of civil disobedience. After all, this
was one of the first cities to attack the late-’80s HIV crisis with a
needle-exchange program. That push wasn’t led by the government but
impassioned street volunteers, who broke state law by handing out
syringes in hard-hit neighborhoods, sometimes in a baby carriage to
avoid detection
<http://sfaf.org/client-services/syringe-access/history-of-needle-exchange.html?referrer=https://www.google.com/>.

“San Francisco already has a few models for what we do when there is
strong public will and support for something not necessarily in line
with the federal government,” says Thomas. That includes progressive
causes like being a “sanctuary city
<http://www.citylab.com/politics/2016/03/sanctuary-cities-doj-policy-immigration-prison-loretta-lynch-john-culberson/471741/>”
that doesn’t cooperate with ICE, medical marijuana, and same-sex marriage.

And the will for change does seem to exist. Nearly three-quarters of
voters in the San Francisco region disagree with Mayor Lee, saying
they’d support a supervised-injection service, according to a poll from
David Binder Research
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/Opposition-to-safe-drug-injection-site-puts-SF-6923391.php>
commissioned by the drug alliance.

“We’ve got a long and proud history of doing what we think is right,”
says Thomas, adding: “The alternative to supervised-injection services
is people injecting on the street, people dying on the street.”

  *
  * Share on Facebook <#>
  * Tweet <#>
  * <#>
  * <mailto:?subject=Could%20Supervised%20Injections%20Help%20San%20Francisco%27s%20Homeless%20Drug%20Users%3F&body=Cities%20across%20the%20U.S.%20are%20pondering%20legalized%2C%20sterile%20street-drug%20injection%20sites%20to%20fight%20the%20overdose%20epidemic.%0A%0ARead%20More:%0Ahttp%3A//www.citylab.com/housing/2016/06/could-supervised-injection-help-san-franciscos-homeless-drug-users/489086/%3Futm_source%3Deb>
  * <#>

Presented by

  *
    Previous
    Why a Running Club for the Homeless Is Heading to San Francisco
    <http://www.citylab.com/cityfixer/2016/06/back-on-my-feet-running-homelessness-san-francisco/488522/>

  *
    Next
    Nightmare at the Istanbul Airport
    <http://www.citylab.com/politics/2016/06/attack-on-istanbul-airport-explosions/489278/>


Ads by Revcontent


      Around the Web

You'll Be Shocked By What She Looks Like Today!
Definition.org

<http://trends.revcontent.com/click.php?d=vZUc3nTXYNGbOYiNGT%2FFUnCRdNxRAQNNKDLmakai%2BbywrrlF9jOHXm5NpGfzABY8fZybbZcU6sHuIfdtgfwMkbt85g1mvvPb4J8DBvSStJRw%2FdKxfn%2BN0av6c%2Bi%2BpkbZ10YYGRQJpXvCZy9qeqn%2FuzPoeybkcSNadcwZhYn9xq%2FNvxnBWBmCqnYL3xHZ5IC4sJOJTKCeI78A8DBJ2%2Bggf5xb8VI%2FK9jhr4qvu%2FJ9GH6ZHBzulgwUR8hVnE%2BXGEiFMEPn0Py9a5W52VWEH3zv%2BBZFkiSdBTa4bhSLKlN5F8qXtt1OD246T2VxbId4%2FGZnXX5%2BRj5%2FHRHnBdRUPEtysS%2B6blZWONfJNLRkfrvL8l1UMz3rZa30lubuTjTlB%2B%2FLDkwjgxzmvgmIvJV9C3JOIcEJ1MMWCHI7xSVzUM%2BsdR%2Fq%2BPOm7ABq%2BCmQfOtwj2fZMh8%2B%2B%2BBsI1Ho4II32zGLkApKfBnrm1vSkfHF5px%2Bhv%2FYvJPb%2Fwr6CJt4Jx6yaTrG2HoJD4inivPyb4%2FS1ByLBCyyjBXehEe7Glxtr4Bq1uLxbYDqlk0QEojspSp%2BwXqUGNVVJKs591TBFjJscw3rC7lo%2Bn6IV08SQp03hx9TUWKoXE5xA5ypHm3zRObzBG5CeJLVW2%2FChN58WUszNp75%2FsHYGdq74eb2ORZySEgsLvI%3D>
x
Find Out Why This Razor Is Beating Out The Drugstore Brands
Harry's

<http://trends.revcontent.com/click.php?d=9jmVMOVVYolt4qTshCaPvpPPWDH%2BO%2FYuDbXfbMyX6i%2F2I3zrZFFMvaq3nUqmPf8QGrNudl5hzOySV369mc%2B5nQQY9x%2FW4Wd7%2FDO055gXsWkvRjqMOo6Pc1e6HKjnAkF2dVUiV%2B%2BByfuV0knTsnklwyncr%2FeS1B2d221cK7W8mw%2Fj4%2B4D5FxoLez7PpWKL9NqfMGZSjc%2BcWJe6EY7FjeJ8dfEMYRH73FFNc90Gq2xRUofzNqoqylb6awTKxU%2FuLkbOVlP9IltBOQrt5N8y1jEC%2BnJ6hX7BCeKZADrbqGvMoR0%2Bsk%2Fpq%2BGcl21QS9U6wyQeAaGgJMMujFN4IM%2FzMZ9H38uRhCs030MXUN89x2zQwFfcLAwC8u%2F70inE0rM8ZmRx%2BSjqFLk2QfmGOq5Hqs2OnNClxP%2BP77wsR3oi9mIZr%2FJtXGLyeQk5nudYJcQsbz%2FgaRgP0jyen2EQfe1b9OapU%2B6wqNtox3dyTKbE8YU0Unafb9RWWJKsIZVgSsW6YL4PTNW9ciaMIGuK5wyfsxPAKoWtPYS9nj3MD6PPRbpHpC4zuXwNe4aNIH9yMep9WnWbQuJjKqBlxaLhRlbzBdEtd%2FGVkhLLCZTJo7vfSYHYQlcJnCnj%2B3AOeq6Mi0KMmcdEaaMpYu4htlraZsb36hNtykmHlGJQmnfPc9X1jc9jrrJXJ0jrrIxPzOe2De1tdZY3dUXIQvuY2uiembk%2B9krzBvYV7nlecseRuAbh45l0NI%3D>
x
The Stunning Celebrity Lovechild No One Knew Existed!
Your Daily Dish

<http://trends.revcontent.com/click.php?d=GvqDijsVy6X46zAhi16EUkZhtRtcr%2F7wrO46ahpqTG98UU1d67J0ZUoibxA3kXuvbgHPfxiXaqesH%2BSBqdKWk1w44HnnPEebdIUTcLJzq6R5D7Epf4eNJVXmbav6cv%2BHbVZGtown1GH9O6WREo1Waft4n9kXZJMGzPN01JMNlnnGHNy8r%2FWit4lt9dRjPuUsIYnQVAOonICtoupADCg1vMnMy7n78YiRR2CLvUIlt1AEw4XIHtgAIaF5d8SbC552lozwjA0U1%2BKVnQGnqIrj7FtJvQFlmiAlaWTyd5c1bowpI4%2B9XJlH3Z7ASRaObsHyxvA0e1jtSy8YOe7XdC8bdJvwyHWE69DdSs%2BuhxMRj43nHezOrGVmwvIanUEG3kuyMundxaPAkItihEpSYnxaaOJacttxVm7DK7XnBLy%2FCmGpAdcCkXIGAKJ3bcX2c1nJWsd2dfpdUuEeyz426jfa4QnsBg3exJo9yQRVfhlcWLk9%2BeOQnLvNb%2BNcz0M2iLRsZLiuLsbFrugPqM6tm%2BAmNFzv4knfNJLkee50Q7wegsCAxol%2BBjLNVK1vzoUHHw5UX%2FCQPX6giPlS%2BrIxmb3jaKQFihl1wRCWXotNFNxCwhnIcVObA91zo0ofXY2zFnD%2F871kGyThEAEAbPwKwV%2Bn73Bc5Q5l9Mzk5UQatQ8zW9Ev3JqTQclIN%2FDBTPhkkx2Y>
x
Quantcast


    About the Author

  * John Metcalfe <http://www.citylab.com/authors/john-metcalfe/>
    John Metcalfe is CityLab’s Bay Area bureau chief, based in Oakland.
    His coverage focuses on climate change and the science of cities.
      o All Posts <http://www.citylab.com/authors/john-metcalfe/>
      o @citycalfe <https://twitter.com/intent/user?screen_name=citycalfe>
      o Feed <http://www.citylab.com/feeds/author/john-metcalfe/>


Most Popular

 1. How America's Metro Areas Voted
    <http://www.citylab.com/politics/2016/11/how-americas-metro-areas-voted/508355/>
 2. 4 Questions About the Incoming Secretary of Transportation
    <http://www.citylab.com/politics/2016/11/4-questions-about-the-incoming-secretary-of-transportation/509009/>
 3. All Hail Carmel, Indiana, America's King of Roundabouts
    <http://www.citylab.com/weather/2016/11/all-hail-carmel-indiana-americas-king-of-roundabouts/508943/>
 4. Why Don't You Need a Bicycle License?
    <http://www.citylab.com/commute/2016/11/why-dont-you-need-a-bicycle-license/508937/>
 5. To Understand Detroit, Look in at Night
    <http://www.citylab.com/navigator/2016/11/detroit-after-dark-exhibition/508838/>
 6. The Evolution of Urban Planning in 10 Diagrams
    <http://www.citylab.com/design/2012/11/evolution-urban-planning-10-diagrams/3851/>
 7. Can the Sharing Economy Root Out Racism?
    <http://www.citylab.com/tech/2016/11/can-the-sharing-economy-root-out-racism/508940/>
 8. The Uselessness of Economic Development Incentives
    <http://www.citylab.com/work/2012/12/uselessness-economic-development-incentives/4081/>
 9. The Complicated Link Between Gentrification and Displacement
    <http://www.citylab.com/housing/2015/09/the-complicated-link-between-gentrification-and-displacement/404161/>
10. It's Not the Gentrification, It's the Resegregation
    <http://www.citylab.com/politics/2016/11/its-not-the-gentrification-its-the-resegregation/501401/>

See All Stories <http://www.citylab.com/posts/>

 1.


    Newsletters


        CityLab, Straight to Your Inbox: Sign Up Here

    Go <http://www.citylab.com/newsletters/?utm_source=CLPromoModule>

 1.


    Let's Be Friends


        Don't Miss Our Latest Stories

    Go <https://www.facebook.com/thisiscitylab/>
 2.


    Store


        T-Shirts, Mugs, and More

    Go <http://www.zazzle.com/atlanticmedia/gifts?cg=196924976381926554>

Back To Top

<#site-header>

  * CityLab

    <http://www.citylab.com/>
  * Share

    <#>
  * Tweet

    <#>
  * Menu

    <#>

Through original reporting, sharp analysis, and visual storytelling,
/CityLab/ informs and inspires the people who are creating the cities of
the future—and those who want to live there.


      Follow

  * <https://www.facebook.com/thisiscitylab>
  * <https://twitter.com/intent/user?screen_name=CityLab>
  * <https://www.linkedin.com/company/citylab-com>
  * <http://www.citylab.com/feeds/posts/>


      Newsletter sign up

Today’s Top Stories

This Week’s Most Popular Stories

I want to receive updates from partners and sponsors.


    More About CityLab

  * Special Reports <http://www.citylab.com/special-report/>
  * FAQ <http://www.citylab.com/faq/>
  * Masthead <http://www.citylab.com/masthead/>
  * Contact Us <http://www.citylab.com/contact/>
  * Store <http://www.theatlantic.com/store/>
  * Atlantic Media <http://atlanticmedia.com/>
  * Jobs <http://www.atlanticmedia.com/careers/>
  * Advertise <http://advertising.theatlantic.com/>
  * Advertising Guidelines
    <http://cdn.theatlantic.com/static/front/docs/ads/TheAtlanticAdvertisingGuidelines.pdf>
  * Privacy <http://www.citylab.com/privacy-policy/>
  * Terms & Conditions <http://www.citylab.com/terms-conditions/>


    Elsewhere at Atlantic Media


The Atlantic

<http://theatlantic.com/>

  * Today's News: Nov. 29, 2016
    <http://www.theatlantic.com/liveblogs/2016/11/news-today/508958/?utm_source=feed>
  * The Atlantic Daily: Ongoing Battles
    <http://www.theatlantic.com/newsletters/archive/2016/11/the-atlantic-daily/509078/?utm_source=feed>
  * When a Woman Sexually Assaults a Man
    <http://www.theatlantic.com/notes/2016/11/australia/509120/?utm_source=feed>


Quartz

<http://www.qz.com/>

  * With little cash in hand post-demonetisation, India cuts down on
    groceries and toiletries
    <http://qz.com/846651/with-little-cash-in-hand-post-demonetisation-india-cuts-down-on-groceries-and-toiletries/>
  * South Korea says China is retaliating against its missile-defense
    system by taking aim at Korean dramas
    <http://qz.com/847900/chinas-retaliating-against-south-koreas-missile-defense-system-by-taking-aim-at-korean-dramas/>
  * The fiancée of Trump’s treasury secretary pick wrote a controversial
    “white savior” memoir
    <http://qz.com/848728/louise-linton-the-fiancee-of-trumps-treasury-secretary-pick-steven-mnuchin-wrote-a-controversial-white-savior-memoir/>

Copyright 2016 The Atlantic Monthly Group.

() Skip Ad >  
Advertisement

close
