<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/> Beyond Homelessness

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>
//
<https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fletters-from-the-mayors%2F&text=How%205%20SF%20mayors%20tackled%20homelessness&hashtags=SFHomelessProject>
// <#>
//
<mailto:?subject=How%205%20SF%20mayors%20tackled%20homelessness&body=SF%20Homeless%20Project%3A%20San%20Francisco%27s%20last%20five%20mayors%2C%20including%20its%20current%20one%2C%20discuss%20their%20attempts%20to%20solve%20the%20homelessness%20problem%20while%20in%20office.%0A%0Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fletters-from-the-mayors%2F>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
Beyond Homelessness <http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>
//
<https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fletters-from-the-mayors%2F&text=How%205%20SF%20mayors%20tackled%20homelessness&hashtags=SFHomelessProject>
// <#>
//
<mailto:?subject=How%205%20SF%20mayors%20tackled%20homelessness&body=SF%20Homeless%20Project%3A%20San%20Francisco%27s%20last%20five%20mayors%2C%20including%20its%20current%20one%2C%20discuss%20their%20attempts%20to%20solve%20the%20homelessness%20problem%20while%20in%20office.%0A%0Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fletters-from-the-mayors%2F>


  How 5 mayors tackled homelessness

June 26, 2016

Five of San Francisco's mayors discuss their attempts to solve the
homelessness problem while in office.

<#read>
Art Agnos
1988-1992
<#read>
Frank Jordan
1992-1996
<#read>
Willie Brown
1996-2004
<#read>
Gavin Newsom
2004-2011
<#read>
Ed Lee
2011-present


  A response that goes ‘Beyond Shelter’

*By Art Agnos*

When I became mayor in 1988, existing government policy for homelessness
consisted of the “American disaster model” employed in natural disasters
like floods and tornadoes. Cities opened armories and served coffee and
doughnuts in what was expected to be temporary relief. Afterward, the
homeless “victims” would resume their lives.

My administration recognized that the homelessness created by disasters
like drug abuse, mental illness, domestic violence, alcoholism, runaway
children, unemployment or low wages required a different approach than
homelessness created by floods and hurricanes.

In 1989, San Francisco homeless advocates, religious leaders, nonprofit
and social service staff gathered to invent a first-of-a-kind plan. That
plan, “Beyond Shelter,” is a solution but not a fast solution — there
are no fast solutions. Sadly, we, the politicians and the public, have
lacked the conviction and commitment to realize success in solving
homelessness.

“Beyond Shelter” was developed to deal with the aftershocks of national
political and economic decisions that put hundreds of homeless people on
city streets.

Nov. 24, 1988 Mayor Art Agnos (center) dishes up mixed vegetables for
the needy at St. Anthony’s annual Thanksgiving dinner.Photo: Chronicle
Archive

The Reagan administration had cut the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development’s budget from $32 billion to $8 billion for affordable
housing — as well as minimum financial assistance such as Supplemental
Security Income. The combined effect was terrible.

Then, just as “Beyond Shelter” got under way, the Loma Prieta earthquake
hit on Oct. 17, 1989, and the city faced a new homeless crisis.

Devastation in the Marina neighborhood suddenly forced residents from
their homes. Emergency shelter and services were quickly put in place by
national agencies. Not as much attention was paid to more than a
thousand formerly homeless people living in the South of Market
single-room-occupancy hotels made homeless again. The Red Cross and
Federal Emergency Management Agency offered immediate housing aid to
homeowners and renters, but denied the same housing aid to those who had
been living on public assistance in SRO hotels.

I demanded, received and shared with other badly damaged cities, donated
earthquake funds totaling more than $30 million, which was
surreptitiously taken from the city by the Red Cross and deposited in
its Washington, D.C., accounts.

“Beyond Shelter” was inaugurated with San Francisco’s share with the
opening of two centers totaling 480 beds. These facilities initially
were modeled after the magnificent Delancey Street Foundation, a
successful program that never compromises with the highest standards of
quality and design.

The homeless in the Civic Center encampment, which I had allowed to
exist in the months between the earthquake and the opening of the
centers nine months later, were peacefully moved to the multiservice
centers with priority for placement in the new “Beyond Shelter” programs.

At the multiservice centers, social service and health professionals
would evaluate each new arrival to determine what services he or she
needed to recover a productive life. Compassion and aggressiveness were
balanced in a case management system designed to help homeless people
recover by, first, housing them and then linking them with appropriate
services.

“Beyond Shelter” had three levels of service:

Assessment

MultiService Centers (think today’s Navigation Centers) accepted
individuals and families — with pets — for a diagnostic stay to identify
the conditions responsible for their homeless “disaster.”

A part of this was the McMillan Emergency Drop-in Center, where
individuals could crash — with no questions asked or be brought there in
“Mobile Assistance Patrol” vans, always on standby for that purpose.

Transition

Once they were diagnosed, the homeless entered the appropriate
transitional housing with supportive services matching their evaluation.
Some might need a short stay — others a longer one.

Permanent housing

Permanent housing — the ultimate goal of the program.

“Beyond Shelter” had two essential assets:

— A Community Housing Partnership to develop, maintain and employ
homeless people in their housing. Today, this agency houses and supports
more than 1,000 formerly homeless people. Jeff Kositsky, former director
of Community Housing Partnership, was just named as the leader of the
new San Francisco Department of Homelessness and Supportive Housing.

— A “modified payment” program to stabilize existing SRO housing by
guaranteeing rent payments to landlords in exchange for rent discounts.
This helped secure the existing housing stock as well as complement the
longer-term commitment to nonprofit housing development.

The final, and more controversial, element called for severely troubled
homeless individuals who acted out in socially unacceptable or
uncivilized ways to be sent by court order to a “rehabilitation farm”
for treatment.

The cost estimates to build out “Beyond Shelter” were about $125 million
in today’s dollars for a target population of 6,000. It certainly fit
within the current budget spending of $245 million.

Nevertheless, we knew that San Francisco needed the buy-in of the Bay
Area cities. In May 1990, mayors from San Jose, Oakland, Berkeley,
Richmond and San Francisco signed a joint action plan and encouraged
every city around the bay to join the effort.

Aug. 15, 1989 Mayor Art Agnos fields questions during a news conference
announcing the city’s master plan on homelessness.Photo by: Sam
Forencich, The Chronicle

By 1991, we had added 444 beds in transitional housing, and awarded
funding to construct 645 more for a total of 1,500 new places.

So why didn’t this state-of-the-art plan work?

The monumental human tragedy that is homelessness cannot be solved by
constantly changing plans at election day. Elected officials must be
willing to assume immediate political risks in order to achieve a
long-term solution. Further, the public must accept responsibility for
its fair share of the solution.

NIMBYism threatened any effort to locate a necessary component of a
homeless plan anywhere except the Tenderloin. People want the issue to
be solved, but not at their inconvenience. But it can be done — just
look at the magnificent Delancey Street facilities located in Pacific
Heights and now along the high-end waterfront.

The media has the responsibility to do more than the occasional special
feature. Recently, homelessness came into the news because of the tent
crisis on Division Street. This teachable moment must be continued
regularly to inform the community about honest, workable solutions.

No plan will succeed until we demonstrate that we have the commitment to
do all that is necessary to make an effective plan work for the most
unpopular group of needy Americans.


  San Francisco has plans to do more

*By Ed Lee*

Our city is struggling with the humanitarian crisis of people
experiencing homelessness on our streets. This challenge isn’t unique to
San Francisco — cities up and down the West Coast, and in fact across
the nation, are seeing spikes in their homeless populations.

In San Francisco, we’ve moved 20,000 homeless individuals indoors over
the last decade, and given them the social and emotional support they
need in our city or back to their hometowns. But, clearly, we need to do
more.

Feb. 23, 2016 David Tompkins reads a book next to his dog, Betty, at the
Pier 80 homeless shelter while a group of city officials tours the
facility.Photo: Lea Suzuki, The Chronicle

As we house and serve thousands, they’re replaced by new thousands —
people who fall into homelessness here, people sent here by other states
or people who arrive every day seeking a better life. As a result,
people live on our streets, under freeways and even in tents on our
sidewalks. This is unhealthy, unsafe and unacceptable.

That’s why I have pledged that over the next four years the city will
help at least 8,000 people get off our streets and into housing or
services to help them stay permanently off our streets. Through
coordinated, compassionate and high-quality services provided by the
newly created Department of Homelessness and Supportive Housing, we are
building a system that ends a person’s homelessness before it becomes
chronic.

I’ve budgeted the funding necessary to support these plans and have
worked closely with the Board of Supervisors on a proposed sales tax for
the November ballot to sustain these investments.

Nov. 10, 2014 Mayor Ed Lee stands next to Clarence Cook, who was
planning to move with 30 other homeless veterans into permanent
supportive housing at a facility on Kearny Street. Photo: Brant Ward,
The Chronicle

But in order to be successful, we must learn from the past. We know if
we simply move people into shelter or from corner to corner without a
longer-term plan for their success, we are not meeting the challenge of
homelessness. We’re prolonging the problem.

That’s why we started the Navigation Center, which has quickly become a
model for serving people who are homeless. It maximizes existing
resources, strategically invests in creative programs, and effectively
matches individuals with the services they need.

These centers break down barriers that homeless people face when moving
off the streets by allowing 24-hour access to shelter and opportunities
to bring their partners, possessions and pets with them. This approach
allows us to stabilize individuals and take care of their immediate
needs. Then we can help them focus on a long-term plan for their lives
off the streets.

April 6, 2016 Mayor Ed Lee visits with Pier 80 client James Harris. Lee
has pledged to step up efforts to deal with homelessness.Photo by: Lea
Suzuki, The Chronicle

As we expand Navigation Centers, we also have to expand our permanent
supportive housing options. That’s why I have made an additional 700
housing units available in the last year alone. After people enter the
Navigation Center, they then can move into housing with the mental
health and other services they need — on-site —to remain housed. This is
San Francisco’s largest expansion of supportive housing in more than a
decade.

We have all the ingredients for success to end homelessness for
thousands of our fellow citizens. I see it every day in the passion and
energy of our service providers, city staff and everyday San
Franciscans. It is with this passion and these investments that we push
toward one goal: to end homelessness one by one, with the compassion and
dignity that defines San Francisco.


  Solution calls for courage, creative ideas, new resources

*By Frank Jordan*

San Francisco has a proud reputation as a compassionate, caring,
tolerant city — a place of new beginnings with opportunities for a
second chance in life. Unfortunately, with all our good intentions and
different strategies, we are still unable to resolve the problem of
homelessness. Every mayor has devoted public resources and tax dollars,
but homelessness continues to be a complex social issue with highly
charged political ramifications.

If there were simple solutions, then our city’s elected officials — with
the assistance of human-services organizations such as the Salvation
Army, St. Anthony’s Outreach, Glide Memorial Church, Hamilton House, the
Tenderloin Neighborhood Development Corp., A Woman’s Place and Swords to
Plowshares (to name a few) — would have resolved homelessness. As it is,
every major U.S. city is struggling with the issue.

Nov. 7, 1988 Frank Jordan, then San Francisco's police chief, tells a
homeless man where he can find shelter for the night. As mayor, Jordan
introduced the Matrix program, which combined the efforts of the police
and public health and social workers.Photo: Brant Ward, The Chronicle

The reasons for homelessness are many: families are out of work;
veterans return home with post-traumatic stress disorder or drug or
alcohol dependency; a state adopts a policy whereby the state
psychiatric hospitals closed and patients released to cities
ill-equipped to provide them necessary services. Adding to the mix is
the high cost of living and diminishing number of blue-collar jobs in
San Francisco. Unfortunately, periodic economic downturns and a variety
of complicated medical conditions provide a never-ending supply of new
people to take the place of those who have been helped.

At the same time, San Francisco’s taxpaying citizens and business owners
are entitled to and expect a reasonable level of public safety and
quality of life. As a city, we must extend a helping hand while
encouraging civil behavior in public places.

I suggest we need, with a coordinated effort and resources from the
state and federal governments:

 1.

    Community support for the police, allowing realistic enforcement of
    quality-of-life laws.

 2.

    Courts working in concert with law enforcement, health care and
    social-service workers. Too often, cases are dismissed, and the
    revolving door continues. Rather than penalties, impose mandatory
    treatment.

 3.

    Sufficient housing and care facilities.

 4.

    Laura’s Law, which requires treatment of mentally ill people when
    they are a danger to themselves and others.

 5.

    The legal means to have people in need of alcohol, drug or mental
    health services to accept them.

It will take courage, commitment and creative elected officials to
successfully navigate the difficult road ahead. We must all stay
positive and hopeful.

Remember: “It is better to light a candle than to curse the darkness.”

Homeless Approaches

*What I tried:*

The Matrix program was an effort to address the escalation in the number
of homeless persons on our streets. The goal was to assist in providing
shelter and psychiatric or substance-abuse treatment to homeless
individuals, provided that they would agree.

*What worked:*

Matrix was delivered through teams, each with a police officer, a public
health worker and a social worker. The social worker would attempt to
sign up homeless individuals for food stamps and a $345 monthly general
assistance check. Monthly rent was paid directly to landlords of
single-room occupancy hotels. This eliminated the problem of homeless
people with drug/alcohol or mental health issues having cash to spend on
their addiction or having other street people take advantage of them.

The police officer would enforce laws against public inebriation,
obstructing the sidewalks, trespassing, aggressive panhandling, public
defecation or camping, and sleeping in neighborhood parks. We found we
can’t be tolerant of inappropriate behavior or it will only get worse.

March 11, 1992 Mayor Frank Jordan is shown a room at the Richmond Hills
Family Center by Program Director Nancy Monroe. Photo: Brant Ward, The
Chronicle

To put Matrix into practice, the Mayor’s Office initiated and voters
approved ballot measures involving quality-of-life issues and procedural
changes in general-assistance funding. For example, panhandling was not
allowed in the immediate area of automatic bank teller machines so
customers withdrawing funds would not feel intimidated.

*What didn’t work:*

*Housing the homeless *proved insurmountable: The city was unable to
provide large-scale funding for long-term, low-income housing to keep
homeless individuals permanently off the streets. This is a much bigger
problem for local governments to solve without a dedicated stream of
funding from the state and federal governments.

*The program name *was a problem: “Matrix” came across to some as a
semi-militaristic title — too strong! More citizen acceptance possibly
would have occurred with a more sensitive title. In succeeding years,
the city launched a program very similar in practice but whose name,
“Care Not Cash,” conveyed a softer tone. Semantics can help — or hinder
— a program as it begins to unfold.


  A window of opportunity for a regional approach

*By Gavin Newsom*

There’s nothing like seeing yourself burned in effigy. My life-size self
was set ablaze at 18th and Castro streets, the response of some who
opposed my new strategy on homelessness. It was the reaction of people
who preferred the status quo. But we forged ahead and developed a
10-year plan to tackle chronic homelessness by reorienting the system of
care away from managing the problem and toward solving it. We aimed to
break the cycle of dependency and move people into stable living situations.

We began by focusing on supportive housing. During my tenure, we moved
people off the street — a 40 percent decrease in street homelessness. We
helped move 12,391 people into permanent housing or back with family,
aided by the completion of supportive-housing units and permanent
supportive-housing units for homeless seniors. We laid the foundations
for 2,827 more supportive-housing units, and added 67 units of homeless
senior housing.

July 20, 2010 Mayor Gavin Newsom talks about accessing city services for
the homeless with a group of people camped out under the Transbay
Terminal overpass on Beale Street.Photo: Michael Macor, The Chronicle

Underpinning the plan — and the fuel for my burning effigy — was “Care
Not Cash,” a strategy that changed the dynamic of San Francisco’s failed
approach to homelessness. To suppress homelessness, you have to repeal
the policies that support it. “Care Not Cash” emphasized supportive
housing and social services instead of cash-handout dependency. It
reduced the number of active welfare cases by 83 percent. We redirected
more than $14 million to place once cash-dependent homeless San
Franciscans into housing.

We brought to scale Project Homeless Connect, a model that has been
recognized and replicated globally, and served more than 33,000 homeless
clients, delivering services such as dental care and eye exams through a
volunteer army. The program addressed the basics: poor dental hygiene,
the need for prescription eyeglasses and access to ID, which so often we
found to be obstacles to employment, housing and government assistance.

Homeless Outreach Teams targeted hotspots like Golden Gate Park; we
established veterans’ programs, women’s programs, senior programs and
respite programs. All were designed to expand our reach and access to
services. And we opened the Community Justice Center
<http://www.sfsuperiorcourt.org/divisions/collaborative/community-justice>
to address quality-of-life violations by redirecting people out the
revolving door of the criminal justice system and into life-changing
rehabilitation programs.

April 30, 2004 Mayor Gavin Newsom looks out of a window at the
McAllister Hotel, where rooms were being made available to the homeless
receiving general assistance from the city.Photo: Brant Ward, The Chronicle

Ultimately, for all the energy invested and progress made on
homelessness in San Francisco during my time as mayor, it was painfully
clear that the city couldn’t do it on its own. It’s a myth that any city
can end homelessness alone.

Like the other seemingly intractable challenges San Francisco faces —
traffic and housing — holistic solutions to homelessness require
coordination and support from the region and the state. Without that,
one city’s policies will simply temporarily shift its problems to a
neighbor.

Now is the time to take meaningful action, because we have bold, smart
leaders at the state and regional level who understand what it takes.

In San Jose’s Sam Liccardo and Oakland’s Libby Schaaf, San Francisco has
neighboring mayors who understand the power of regional solutions to
take on tough challenges. At the state level, state Sen. Holly Mitchell,
D-Los Angeles, has a bill (SB1380
<http://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=201520160SB1380>)
to create a state Interagency Council on Homelessness, which will allow
California’s experts on homeless services to coordinate and trade our
best ideas around the state.

If there were easy answers, then homelessness would have been solved
years ago. But we must never be complacent about something this
fundamental to a city’s humanity. We should take advantage of this
unique moment to work for state and regional solutions that will help
San Francisco and California.


  Major changes needed before complex issue can be solved

*By Willie Brown*

The 1995 contest for mayor had a major issue: homelessness. Everyone was
asking “Does the Jordan administration’s ‘Matrix’ program work?” My
answer was a loud and forceful “no.” After all, this was a political
campaign. My answer tracked with what the public opinion survey showed.

I, of course, in the pursuit of votes and with the true belief that the
problem was solvable, campaigned on the promise that I could solve it —
ASAP. I called for a summit on homelessness shortly after taking the
oath of office. Then, a series of meetings with city staff, neighborhood
representatives, small-business owners and homeless advocates led me to
the conclusion that the summit was not needed.

Aug. 20, 1997 Mayor Willie Brown wields a broom as part of his
litter-removal program, while neighborhood youths look on. Brown says
his “only option was to manage” homelessness.Photo: Lea Suzuki, The
Chronicle

This is what I learned:

The homeless population was more complicated than my campaign rhetoric
had acknowledged. This population was composed of military veterans,
victims of drug addiction, persons with mental challenges, people with
serious health issues, persons suffering from poverty, and families
displaced by multiple uncontrolled circumstances. We addressed all of
these populations as best as we could, given the legal limitations.

Dec. 12, 1995 Willie Brown sports a cap reading “Da Mayor” while
claiming victory in the San Francisco mayor’s race over incumbent Frank
Jordan in a runoff election. During the campaign, Brown promised to
solve the city’s homeless problem but eventually concluded that was not
possible. Photo: Christina Koci Hernandez, San Francisco Examiner

Governments — national, state, county or city — did not have the power
legally to address homelessness. When you can’t force people to accept
shelter or medication — even for their own benefit — it renders you
helpless.

My only option was to manage — not end — the problem. This included:

Contracting with nonprofit care organizations, partnering with
faith-based groups, supporting community and neighborhood food and
health care programs and, of course, operating city homeless shelter and
drop-in facilities — all subject to only voluntary use by homeless people.

Washing down the downtown streets, at hours recommended by city staff.

Dismantling and removing campsites (a staple of our program). Also
effective was hiring an ex-homeless person to be the homeless program
troubleshooter.

Oct. 8, 1999 Pheona Tippens sits near shopping carts laden with her
belongings on Market Street. She said then that God would take care of
her if Mayor Willie Brown and the police took away her carts. Brown said
at the time that homelessness could not be solved.Photo: Vince Maggiora,
The Chronicle

Each of these steps was designed to legally control the issue. In my
judgment, they worked but we did not wipe out homelessness. I said — to
my regret to this day — homelessness cannot be solved.

My conclusion was — and is — that to solve homelessness requires massive
change of many laws, rules and regulations which, without careful
control, could impact the general population’s cherished freedoms.

Read another letter >> <#next>
Read another letter >> <#read>
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Graphic designer

John Blanchard • jblanchard@sfchronicle.com
<mailto:jblanchard@sfchronicle.com> • @sfchronicle
<https://twitter.com/sfchronicle>

Interactive producers

Lucio Villa • lvilla@sfchronicle.com <mailto:lvilla@sfchronicle.com> •
@luciovilla <https://twitter.com/luciovilla>
Benjamin Din • bdin@sfchronicle.com <mailto:bdin@sfchronicle.com> •
@benjamindin <https://twitter.com/benjamindin>
Emma O'Neill • eoneill@sfchronicle.com <mailto:eoneill@sfchronicle.com>
• @emmaruthoneill <https://twitter.com/emmaruthoneill>
------------------------------------------------------------------------


        Editorial: SF's homeless problem a civic disgrace

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/civic-disgrace>


        Solution starts with supportive housing

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/supportive-housing>


        The mentally ill: Streets' costliest residents

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/mental-health>


        Can the shelter system be successful?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/shelters>


        Can law enforcement curb the crisis?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/encampments>


        A problem that looks the same as it did 20 years ago

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/overview>


        How many people live on our streets?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/numbers>


        Faces of homelessness: Portraits of life on SF's streets

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/faces-of-the-streets>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>


    The sign in service is not functioning right now.


    Please try again in a few minutes

If the issues continue, please contact our customer service at

Phone:

Email:


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in


Don't have a profile?


            Don't have a subscription?

Sign up Subscribe

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a profile using


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password
Send me email offers

Already have a profile? Sign In

By clicking "Next" or signing in you confirm that you accept our Terms
and Conditions <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and have read
and understood our Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in


          Hi,


          You are signed in

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>

Maintain your delivery address, payment details and place a vacation
hold in Subscriber Portal.

MANAGE SUBSCRIPTION

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/account/>

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>
SUBSCRIBE

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>
SIGN OUT

<javascript:void(0)>


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our
Terms of Service <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy
Policy <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign In

Keep me signed in
Show password Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Paid Subscription Access Only

You are now signed in but you must have a San Francisco Chronicle
subscription to access any content.

Already have a subscription?

ACTIVATE

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fletters-from-the-mayors%2F>


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          About Me

DISPLAY NAMEDisplay names must begin with an alpha-numeric character.
They can not contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor
may they contain obscenities.

This display name is already in use. Please enter a different display name.

You must enter a display name.

Display names must begin with an alpha-numeric character. They can not
contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor may they
contain obscenities.

EMAIL ADDRESSChanging this email address will also change the email
address associated with your subscription

You must enter an email address.

GENDERThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

BIRTH YEARThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

* are required fields


          SF Chronicle Subscription

You can manage your delivery address, payment details, delete your
account and more subscription details in the subscriber portal.

Manage Subscription

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/account/>


            Get it on all your devices


    Unlimited digital access with every subscription

SFChronicle.com | App for iPhone and iPad
e-edition (daily print replica) | Exclusive member experiences and discounts

SUBSCRIBE NOW AND SAVE!

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/> I have a subscription

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fletters-from-the-mayors%2F>


          Password

EDIT

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.


          Password

CANCEL

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.

CURRENT PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Current password is incorrect

Current password field is required

NEW PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain both
upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

New password field is required

CONFIRM PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Confirm password field is required

Show password


    Welcome, !

Your profile, subscription, linked accounts, and newsletter selections
are not viewable by other readers on our sites. Your profile can only be
seen by you. Any comments you post to articles on our sites can be seen
by all readers and moderators.


          Newsletter Preferences

You are subscribed to the following:

  * Top O’ the Bay

    The latest stories from across the San Francisco Bay Area

  * Notes & Errata

    Mark Morford's irreverent and highly satiric weekly column

  * Breaking News

    Be notified when when big stories break or critical warnings are
    issued for the Bay Area

  * Sports

    Coverage of all your Bay Area teams

  * Inside Scoop

    Insider knowledge for Bay Area foodies

  * New Flicks

    The latest movie reviews

  * Business & Technology

    The latest in business, finance, and tech news

  * 5 Things To Do

    Great events across the Bay Area selected just for you


          San Francisco Chronicle Newsletters

  * Chronicle Commuter

    A curated selection of stories just in time for your afternoon commute

  * Membership Updates

    The latest from our membership benefits program (subscribers only)

  * e-edition Reminder

    Reminder of your daily e-edition, a replica of the print newspaper
    (subscribers only)

  * Subscription Reminders

    Notices and reminders about your subscription (subscribers only)


          Email Notifications and Offers

  * Feature Updates

    Special features, new site sections and more from The Chronicle and
    SFGATE

  * Promotions & Sales

    Subscription offers from the San Francisco Chronicle and other
    special promotions

  * Surveys

    Surveys about your Chronicle print edition, websites and other
    digital products

  * Advertiser Special Offers

    Receive special offers sent by us on behalf of select advertisers
    and partners

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in Forgot Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

You must be a subscriber to access this content.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

Stay signed in
Forgot Your Password?


          Sign In

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Back to Sign In

Email address field is required.

Email address is incorrect.

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


          Link Profiles

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot Your Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Forgot Your Password?


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Link Profiles

Stay signed in

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Forgot Your Password?


          SIGN IN


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot Your Password?
Keep me signed in


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Sign In With Your Existing San Francisco Chronicle Account
Sign In
OR

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Keep me signed in
Forgot Your Password?

By signing in, you agree to our terms of use
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/>.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password?

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in
Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot password?

Create an account

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a sign-in for your subscription account


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password

Have a profile on SFGate or San Francisco Chronicle already?

Sign In

Contact Customer Service at 800-310-2455 or email us at
homedelivery@sfchronicle.com <mailto:homedelivery@sfchronicle.com>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in

