<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/> Beyond Homelessness

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>
//
<https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fnumbers%2F&text=How%20many%20people%20live%20on%20San%20Francisco%20streets%3F&hashtags=SFHomelessProject>
// <#>
//
<mailto:?subject=How%20many%20people%20live%20on%20our%20streets%3F&body=SF%20Homeless%20Project%3A%20That%20question%20is%20the%20basis%20for%20the%20most%20frequent%20Google%20search%20in%20San%20Francisco%20regarding%20homelessness.%20The%20answer%2C%20though%2C%20is%20elusive.%0A%0Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fnumbers%2F>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
Beyond Homelessness <http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>
//
<https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fnumbers%2F&text=How%20many%20people%20live%20on%20San%20Francisco%20streets%3F&hashtags=SFHomelessProject>
// <#>
//
<mailto:?subject=How%20many%20people%20live%20on%20our%20streets%3F&body=SF%20Homeless%20Project%3A%20That%20question%20is%20the%20basis%20for%20the%20most%20frequent%20Google%20search%20in%20San%20Francisco%20regarding%20homelessness.%20The%20answer%2C%20though%2C%20is%20elusive.%0A%0Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fnumbers%2F>


  How many people live on our streets?

By Joaquin Palomino

June 28, 2016

May 27, 2016 A man pushes a cart of belongings past Christine Boyer
(right) as she panhandles at Mission and Second streets.Photo: Lea
Suzuki, The Chronicle

How many people are homeless in San Francisco?

That question is the basis for the most frequent Google search in the
city regarding homelessness. The answer, though, is elusive.

About this project:

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>

The San Francisco Chronicle has joined with more than 70 other news
organizations to focus attention on the seemingly intractable problem of
homelessness in our region.

Read the letter to the city
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/letter-to-the-city/>.

Other stories and multimedia elements of this project can be found at
sfchronicle.com/homeless <http://sfchronicle.com/homeless>.

Multiple government agencies have attempted to calculate the scope of
homelessness, but accurately measuring it or its social and economic
impacts is difficult, if not impossible. Homelessness can take many
forms and is often a temporary status, making it hard to reliably track.

The city hopes to build a more comprehensive information system, making
it easier to count and provide assistance to homeless people. Currently,
however, estimates on the number of people living on San Francisco’s
streets — and the costs associated with them — vary dramatically.

The figure 6,686 is the most widely circulated approximation of homeless
adults in the city. That number comes from a count made on a single
night in January 2015, when volunteers fanned out across San Francisco
and identified people who appeared to be sleeping on the streets, in
parks, in cars, or anywhere else not meant for human habitation.

Rahul Mukherjee/The Chronicle
Source: San Francisco’s Biennial Homeless Count

Those staying in a temporary shelter that evening were also counted to
come up with the final estimate.

The biennial survey — conducted in cities across the country at the
behest of the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development —
provides the only consistent and uniform data enumerating street people.
The information from those counts influences everything from federal
funding for homeless services to newspaper headlines to discussions at
City Hall. But they stem from an imprecise science.

In some cities, including San Francisco, volunteers are told not to
speak with the people they’re counting for safety reasons, forcing them
to rely on visual cues. Some, like a person curled up in a sleeping bag
on the street, are pretty clear. Others, like someone pushing a cart
full of recyclables, are less definitive.

“It’s a big undercount, because they just look at someone and assume a
housing status,” said Jennifer Friedenbach, executive director of the
San Francisco advocacy group Coalition on Homelessness.

Rahul Mukherjee/The Chronicle
Source: U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development

The HUD survey also excludes people sleeping on a friend’s couch or
waiting for a shelter bed, as well as individuals who evaded the
canvassers. The thousands of formerly homeless residing in permanent
supportive housing — which offers a suite of services along with an
apartment room for life — are also excluded from the figure.

“It’s not perfect, but it’s a good snapshot in time of the homeless,”
said Eduardo Cabrera, a spokesman for HUD who participated in San
Francisco’s most recent survey. “At this point, it’s the best tool we
have to measure the extent of homelessness.”

9,975 homeless in the city?

San Francisco’s Department of Public Health maintains a robust database
that accounts for every homeless person that uses medical, mental health
or substance abuse services in the city.

Unlike the HUD count, which takes place over just a few hours, Public
Health’s database, called the Coordinated Care Management System, tracks
people who have experienced homelessness at any point during an entire
fiscal year.

“It’s better for getting a sense of how many people in a community are
touched by homelessness over a longer time span,” said Barry Lee, a Penn
State sociology professor familiar with similar tracking systems. “By
its nature, homelessness is episodic, it’s fluid.”

Rahul Mukherjee/The Chronicle
Source: Department of Public Health’s Coordinated Care Management System
data

In fiscal 2014-15, Public Health’s CCMS reported 9,975 homeless
individuals in the city, a figure nearly 50 percent higher than the
biennial homeless count’s estimate (32 percent higher when including the
supplemental youth count). The database, which provides a detailed
breakdown of the health conditions and demographics of the people it
tracks, paints a stark picture.

In the 2014-15 fiscal year:

#

More than half of the homeless people in CCMS had a history of
depression or psychosis.

#

Roughly 60 percent had a history of drug or alcohol abuse.

#

A third had been intermittently homeless for longer than a decade, up
from 9 percent in 2007. Nearly half of those individuals were African
American. Just 6 percent of the city’s general population is black.

#

The number of homeless people age 60 or older jumped 30 percent, from
856 individuals in 2007 to 1,103 last year.

#

79 homeless people died in 2014-15. As of April, 87 homeless individuals
had died in 2015-16, with three months left in the fiscal year.

Homeless people cost the city nearly $150 million in emergency health
care last year, including ambulance rides, emergency room visits,
placements in sobering centers and other services. A relatively small
number accrued significantly high care costs.

The 1,320 homeless people needing the most aid required $106 million in
emergency medical and mental health services last year — or roughly
$80,000 on average — accounting for more than a fifth of all such costs
in San Francisco.

“They’re a very vulnerable, very sick, and very high-cost group,” said
Maria X Martinez, a Public Health director who helps oversee CCMS.

Public Health’s information system has helped San Francisco target and
track its most needy residents, but it has a practical limitation: It
only captures those using medical, mental health or substance abuse
services.

Rahul Mukherjee/The Chronicle
Source: San Francisco Unified School District

Younger street people, who are typically healthier, are
under-represented, according to Friedenbach. The more than 2,000
schoolchildren living without a stable home, according to the San
Francisco Unified School District, are also probably missing from the
database.

Friedenbach estimates there are closer to 13,000 homeless people in the
city over the course of an entire year.

Growing or shrinking?

While Public Health’s database shows the homeless population is getting
older, sicker, and spending more time on the streets, it also suggests
there are now fewer of them in San Francisco. In 2007, the city health
department recorded nearly 12,000 homeless individuals.

The data run counter to the point-in-time estimates. Both HUD and the
biennial count show the number of homeless, particularly those without
shelter, has grown over the past decade — a trend that matches public
perception in the city.

“I’ve been here 26 years, and the homeless problem is worse than it has
ever been,” said Candace Combs, a massage studio owner and president of
the Mission Creek Merchants Association. “When I walk by these
encampments, as a woman, it doesn’t feel safe.”

Combs isn’t the only person concerned about the growing number of tarps
and tents on the sidewalks; there has been a surge in 311 complaints
regarding encampments in recent years.

In 2013, the city’s 311 line recorded 898 encampment-related grievances,
or between two and three per day, according to a Chronicle analysis. As
of mid-May this year, there had been 6,982 complaints about homeless
camps, or more than 50 per day. (Andy Maimoni, deputy director of 311,
attributed some of the growth to a new category for homeless camps added
to the mobile app in October.)

311 complaints, of course, don’t measure the number of homeless people,
but public sentiment. The spike in such grievances may not reflect a
growing homeless population, just a more visible one.

“There used to a be a lot of marginal space, but that has become
valuable real estate in a lot of places,” Lee, of Penn State, said,
referring not just to the situation in San Francisco, but many parts of
the nation. “You might be seeing more people out and about, but it could
be because they have nowhere else to go.”

Creating a better system

The difficulty of accurately tracking how many people are homeless isn’t
unique to San Francisco. Due to its often transient and temporary
nature, it’s virtually impossible to make a precise count of homeless
individuals.

“I don’t think any city will ever say, ‘We feel confident that we have
counted every single homeless person,’” said Nan Roman, president of
National Alliance to End Homelessness in Washington, D.C. “But you can
get close, you can get the dimensions, and if you’re consistent in the
count methodology, you can measure progress from year to year.”

Currently, San Francisco doesn’t have a single information network to
track homeless people, but rather a number of separate databases managed
by different service providers. Jeff Kositsky, director of San
Francisco’s new Department of Homelessness and Supportive Housing, hopes
to solve that problem.

Kositsky plans to unite the disparate homeless information systems,
including the Department of Public Health’s CCMS, allowing the city to
better track its neediest residents and connect them to appropriate
services — whether that’s housing, a shelter bed or medical care.

Putting all services under one roof should not only make it easier for
the city to track the number of people living on the streets, it should
also make it simpler for homeless people to access care.

“If you’re homeless, you may need to be assessed three, four different
times, answering the same questions each time; it’s unfair, inefficient
and not respectful of people we’re trying to serve,” Kositsky said.
“Clients have to get into many different lines to access services, and
we’re going to ask them to get into one line.”

Kositsky anticipates the new homeless system will be partially running
by next October, and fully functional by the fall of 2018.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Reporter

Joaquin Palomino • jpalomino@sfchronicle.com
<mailto:jpalomino@sfchronicle.com> • @JoaquinPalomino
<https://twitter.com/JoaquinPalomino>

Interactive producers

Lucio Villa • lvilla@sfchronicle.com <mailto:lvilla@sfchronicle.com> •
@luciovilla <https://twitter.com/luciovilla>
Benjamin Din • bdin@sfchronicle.com <mailto:bdin@sfchronicle.com> •
@benjamindin <https://twitter.com/benjamindin>
Emma O'Neill • eoneill@sfchronicle.com <mailto:eoneill@sfchronicle.com>
• @emmaruthoneill <https://twitter.com/emmaruthoneill>
------------------------------------------------------------------------


        Editorial: SF's homeless problem a civic disgrace

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/civic-disgrace>


        Solution starts with supportive housing

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/supportive-housing>


        The mentally ill: Streets' costliest residents

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/mental-health>


        Can the shelter system be successful?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/shelters>


        Can law enforcement curb the crisis?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/encampments>


        A problem that looks the same as it did 20 years ago

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/overview>


        Faces of homelessness: Portraits of life on SF's streets

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/faces-of-the-streets>


        In their words: How SF's last 5 mayors tackled homelessness

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/letters-from-the-mayors>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>


    The sign in service is not functioning right now.


    Please try again in a few minutes

If the issues continue, please contact our customer service at

Phone:

Email:


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in


Don't have a profile?


            Don't have a subscription?

Sign up Subscribe

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a profile using


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password
Send me email offers

Already have a profile? Sign In

By clicking "Next" or signing in you confirm that you accept our Terms
and Conditions <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and have read
and understood our Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in


          Hi,


          You are signed in

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>

Maintain your delivery address, payment details and place a vacation
hold in Subscriber Portal.

MANAGE SUBSCRIPTION

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/account/>

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>
SUBSCRIBE

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>
SIGN OUT

<javascript:void(0)>


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our
Terms of Service <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy
Policy <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign In

Keep me signed in
Show password Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Paid Subscription Access Only

You are now signed in but you must have a San Francisco Chronicle
subscription to access any content.

Already have a subscription?

ACTIVATE

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fnumbers%2F>


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          About Me

DISPLAY NAMEDisplay names must begin with an alpha-numeric character.
They can not contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor
may they contain obscenities.

This display name is already in use. Please enter a different display name.

You must enter a display name.

Display names must begin with an alpha-numeric character. They can not
contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor may they
contain obscenities.

EMAIL ADDRESSChanging this email address will also change the email
address associated with your subscription

You must enter an email address.

GENDERThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

BIRTH YEARThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

* are required fields


          SF Chronicle Subscription

You can manage your delivery address, payment details, delete your
account and more subscription details in the subscriber portal.

Manage Subscription

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/account/>


            Get it on all your devices


    Unlimited digital access with every subscription

SFChronicle.com | App for iPhone and iPad
e-edition (daily print replica) | Exclusive member experiences and discounts

SUBSCRIBE NOW AND SAVE!

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/> I have a subscription

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fnumbers%2F>


          Password

EDIT

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.


          Password

CANCEL

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.

CURRENT PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Current password is incorrect

Current password field is required

NEW PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain both
upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

New password field is required

CONFIRM PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Confirm password field is required

Show password


    Welcome, !

Your profile, subscription, linked accounts, and newsletter selections
are not viewable by other readers on our sites. Your profile can only be
seen by you. Any comments you post to articles on our sites can be seen
by all readers and moderators.


          Newsletter Preferences

You are subscribed to the following:

  * Top O’ the Bay

    The latest stories from across the San Francisco Bay Area

  * Notes & Errata

    Mark Morford's irreverent and highly satiric weekly column

  * Breaking News

    Be notified when when big stories break or critical warnings are
    issued for the Bay Area

  * Sports

    Coverage of all your Bay Area teams

  * Inside Scoop

    Insider knowledge for Bay Area foodies

  * New Flicks

    The latest movie reviews

  * Business & Technology

    The latest in business, finance, and tech news

  * 5 Things To Do

    Great events across the Bay Area selected just for you


          San Francisco Chronicle Newsletters

  * Chronicle Commuter

    A curated selection of stories just in time for your afternoon commute

  * Membership Updates

    The latest from our membership benefits program (subscribers only)

  * e-edition Reminder

    Reminder of your daily e-edition, a replica of the print newspaper
    (subscribers only)

  * Subscription Reminders

    Notices and reminders about your subscription (subscribers only)


          Email Notifications and Offers

  * Feature Updates

    Special features, new site sections and more from The Chronicle and
    SFGATE

  * Promotions & Sales

    Subscription offers from the San Francisco Chronicle and other
    special promotions

  * Surveys

    Surveys about your Chronicle print edition, websites and other
    digital products

  * Advertiser Special Offers

    Receive special offers sent by us on behalf of select advertisers
    and partners

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in Forgot Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

You must be a subscriber to access this content.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

Stay signed in
Forgot Your Password?


          Sign In

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Back to Sign In

Email address field is required.

Email address is incorrect.

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


          Link Profiles

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot Your Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Forgot Your Password?


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Link Profiles

Stay signed in

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Forgot Your Password?


          SIGN IN


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot Your Password?
Keep me signed in


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Sign In With Your Existing San Francisco Chronicle Account
Sign In
OR

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Keep me signed in
Forgot Your Password?

By signing in, you agree to our terms of use
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/>.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password?

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in
Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot password?

Create an account

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a sign-in for your subscription account


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password

Have a profile on SFGate or San Francisco Chronicle already?

Sign In

Contact Customer Service at 800-310-2455 or email us at
homedelivery@sfchronicle.com <mailto:homedelivery@sfchronicle.com>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in

