
	Hoodline wordmark
	The "Hoodline" wordmark or logo, spelled out in a bold font.
	

<http://hoodline.com/>

  * News

    <http://hoodline.com/>
  * Events

    <http://hoodline.com/events>

//

  * Log in
    <http://hoodline.com/login?return_to=%2F2016%2F06%2Fhow-the-lower-polk-cbd-tackles-homelessness-with-compassion>

  * Sign up <http://hoodline.com/signup>

//


  How The Lower Polk CBD Tackles Homelessness With Compassion

Polk8
Lower Polk CBD's Jamie Fountain speaks to a homeless man. (Photos:
Nathan Falstreau/Hoodline)

Wed. June 29, 2016, 1:27pm
Icon user
Icon user
Screen shot 2015 12 01 at 5.26.07 pm
by Nathan Falstreau
@NFalstreau <http://twitter.com/NFalstreau>
Icon map
Icon map
neighborhoods
Polk <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/polk>
SF Shipyard <http://hoodline.com/ads/68/118/2>

/[Editor's Note: Hoodline is participating in today's SF Homeless
Project <https://www.facebook.com/sfhomelessproject>, in which more than
70 area publications are each covering homelessness issues in their own
ways./

/While we already write about these issues often, we hope that our
stories today will add more neighborhood context to this very
complicated topic, and to the great work being published elsewhere. You
can read more about the project here
<http://www.sfgate.com/homeless/article/SF-Homeless-Project-Letter-to-the-City-8326254.php>.]/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

There are 14 community benefit districts
<http://oewd.org/community-benefit-districts> (CBDs) in San Francisco,
which bring together neighbors, merchants, and local government entities
to help improve the quality of life in a given neighborhood, including
safety, cleanliness of the streets and overall livability.

But one neighborhood organization, the Lower Polk CBD
<http://lowerpolkcbd.com/index.html>, has been working tirelessly over
the last few months to tackle quality-of-life issues for some of its
most vulnerable neighbors: those without a home.

In response to concerns from neighbors, the CBD has hired two full-time
social service ambassadors trained in harm-reduction methodologies, as
well as six full-time employees who help clean the street of feces and
other debris. 

Hoodline recently toured the lower Polk Street neighborhood with several
members of the CBD staff, to see how they balance the concerns of
merchants and neighbors with the struggles of residents facing
addiction, joblessness, and a lack of housing opportunities.

CBD staff member Jamie Fountain speaks to a homeless man.

*Why address homelessness? *

The CBD decided to tackle homeless issues after conducting a survey of
merchants and residents in the neighborhood, in which over 50 percent of
respondents said that issues with the homeless population were of utmost
importance.

Lower Polk is both ethnically and socioeconomically diverse, explained
Christian Martin, the CBD's executive director. “You have the [homeless]
shelter over here, but you also have million-dollar condos in the same
neighborhood,” he said. “We are trying to make sure that everyone's
needs are served, including the homeless.” 

Many locals advocated for pushing homeless people out of the
neighborhood, but "the move-along approach doesn't work," Martin said.
The sit/lie ordinance, enacted via Proposition L in 2010, hasn't made
much of a dent in the homeless presence in Lower Polk, and while city
services are available, "their response time wasn't so great." 

Rather than push the homeless problem onto another group's plate, the
CBD resolved to tackle it personally, said board president Chris Schulman. 

“I don't want to see our homeless neighbors pushed from our neighborhood
to another without solving the problem," he said. "People don't
necessarily know that our benefit district ends at a certain street. We
all need to work together.”

*The personal touch*

“These are my neighbors," said Jamie Fountain, a social services
coordinator with the CBD. Fountain also lives in Lower Polk—right across
the street from the CBD's office. “This is about treating your homeless
neighbors as actual neighbors."

"There are a lot of reasons why they are here. A lot of them feel safe
here,” Fountain told us. “A lot of them used to have homes here. A lot
of them have friends here. They are just as part of the community as I am.”

He also noted that some of the homeless people he meets used to reside
in homes in the neighborhood; many were evicted there, or in other
neighborhoods, under the Ellis Act
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ellis_Act>, a controversial state law
that allows building owners to remove tenants, provided they get out of
the landlord business for five years. Many local organizations
<http://www.antievictionmap.com/> have argued that the law has spurred
the displacement of some of the city's most vulnerable populations. 

Fountain said his approach with homeless neighbors is to meet each
person as a friend, to gain their trust. He provides snacks and juice to
those on the streets, and checks to see if they are OK.

It's imperative that staff members approach situations non-judgmentally,
Fountain explains. “A lot of these people lived in homes in the
neighborhood before. We've found that by establishing trust first, it
makes them more cooperative in the future if there is an issue.”

Now, when merchants see someone with drug or mental health issues
outside their business, they can call the ambassadors instead of getting
the police involved. Because of the rapport that the CBD staff has
established, situations often de-escalate quickly. And in the event of a
drug-related emergency, the ambassadors carry naloxone, a drug that
instantly saves someone from suffering a heroin or opioid overdose. 

Martin said that he was skeptical of this method at first. “How could
handing out snacks on the street help?” he quipped. But the small bags
of goodies and hygiene kits have helped forge bonds with many homeless
people, who even began to seek CBD staff out when they needed help.

“A few of them told us that they wouldn't have talked to us if we were
members of the Homeless Outreach Team
<http://www.sfhsa.org/96.htm> [H.O.T.],” Martin said. “Every time
someone from H.O.T responds to a 311 complaint, it's a new face, whereas
they are getting used to us being here and helping out.”

However, Martin emphasized that the CBD aims to work with city agencies
whenever possible. "We put out our people to help support their efforts
... And we have a good relationship with the beat cops. They call us
when they feel that we could be of better service.”

Touring Lower Polk with Martin, Schulman and Fountain.

*A day in the life of a homeless ambassador*

After we met with the CBD team at their office, they took us on a tour
of Lower Polk, visiting some of the more concentrated areas that those
on the streets call home.  

On Cedar Alley, we encountered a man passed out on the ground, who
wasn't moving. Fountain, who carries a bag filled with items to give
those in need, immediately checked on his condition. “Sir, are you OK?
Do you need help?” There was no response.

Martin and Fountain said that they were already familiar with the man,
and could see signs that he was still breathing. “I wouldn't have
touched him if we hadn't already had contact with him,” said Fountain.
“But if I find someone who's unresponsive, I need to call H.O.T. This is
out of my area of service."

We continued onward as Fountain sat on hold with the H.O.T.—a common
occurrence, as they're always backed up with calls, he said.

A little further down the block, we encountered another man sleeping,
though it was mid-afternoon. Fountain asked if he was OK, and the man
woke up. “Would you like some juice? You need some vitamins,” he said.
The man accepted the drinks and snacks, as well as a hygiene packet
filled with soap and shampoo. “I packed this one myself,” Fountain told
the man as he handed it to him.

Despite the potential safety risks, Fountain never wears gloves while
working. “My boss tells me that I should wear them, but I don't want the
people to think that I am afraid of them, or better than them,” he said.
“I'll only wear them if I need to pick up used needles. We'll come
across some of our residents and there will be piles of needles.
Usually, I'll ask them if they know about the free needle exchange
program, to make sure that they are safe.”

We headed down to Sgt. Macaulay Park, at the corner of O'Farrell and
Larkin streets, where the CBD has erected a canopy tent and set up a
table with a staff member to monitor the public restroom on the corner,
ensuring it's not used for drugs or prostitution. The staffer, who was
once homeless herself, has now become part of the neighborhood CBD team;
Martin said she's one of their most respected employees.  

A houseless neighbor asks Fountain for some snacks and juice

From there, we visited Fern Alley, a spot notorious for homeless
residents, Martin said. As we approached, two men were making a scene,
stepping into oncoming traffic, but one of them stopped when he saw
Martin and Fountain, saying that he would behave.

Fountain found out that he was high on crack cocaine and needed some
juice, which he provided. “He knows that he needs the sugar and the
vitamins,” he told us. “It helps him when he's coming down from the drug.”

The other man with him, who said his name was Mustafa, wanted to get
high and was trying to shoot up, but lacked the drugs. “He's a little
jealous of his friend,” said Fountain. “Because he's high and he's not.
He's causing a little scene, because he has an audience."

*The challenges of substance abuse*

Fountain said that he notes when individuals are having a hard time on a
particular day, making a point to check in on them later. When they're
coming down from drugs, he asks them, “What would it feel like to not
use tomorrow?”

If a neighbor shows signs of wanting to kick the habit, he works to get
them into detox, and even accompanies them to intake. “We're not going
to let them go through withdrawal on the streets. They feel safe in the
neighborhood, so we'll go with them to the Mission or wherever the detox
center is, to make sure that they don't feel alone.”

For those who aren't ready to go to detox, Fountain makes sure they have
access to clean needles and other services, and vows to check in on them
the following day. “I'm out here several times a day,” he said. “More,
if I'm needed."

Chris Schulman with a member of the CBD clean-up crew.

Towards the end of our tour, we encountered a younger couple outside of
a pupuseria on Larkin Street, who were from out of town and newly
homeless. Fountain spoke with them, and learned that they had enough
cash to secure a hotel for the evening. They booked an appointment with
him at the CBD the following Tuesday, to learn about services that might
help them get out of their situation. 

While the Lower Polk CBD is in its infancy, the staff is dedicated to
helping improve the neighborhood and providing more services to those
that need them. We'll keep you posted as the organization implements
more programs, and strives to serve neighbors from all walks of life. 

share this story:


      Never miss a story.

Subscribe today to get Hoodline delivered straight to your inbox.

subscribe:

subscribe


  Keep reading about Polk <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/polk>


Related:


  Get To Know 'The Fueling Station,' A New Cafe Coming To Polk Street

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/get-to-know-the-fueling-station-a-new-cafe-coming-to-polk-street>


Img 6284

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/get-to-know-the-fueling-station-a-new-cafe-coming-to-polk-street>


The cafe and coffeehouse will offer a unique array of new food items,
including a banh mi and a caprese waffle.

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/get-to-know-the-fueling-station-a-new-cafe-coming-to-polk-street>

Polk
 <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/polk> Russian Hill
 <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/russian-hill>


  SFMTA Videos Aim To Demystify Van Ness Avenue Construction Plans

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/sfmta-videos-aim-to-demystify-van-ness-avenue-construction-plans>


Van ness outside city hall plus historic light pole

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/sfmta-videos-aim-to-demystify-van-ness-avenue-construction-plans>


The videos detail the many modifications coming to the city's traffic
"backbone" over the next three years.

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/sfmta-videos-aim-to-demystify-van-ness-avenue-construction-plans>

Civic Center
 <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/civic-center> Hayes Valley
 <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/hayes-valley> Lower Pac Heights
 <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-pac-heights> Marina
 <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/marina> Polk
 <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/polk> Russian Hill
 <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/russian-hill> Tenderloin
 <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/tenderloin>


  Lower Polk Neighbors Finalizes Vision Plan For Neighborhood Alleyways

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/lower-polk-neighbors-finalizes-vision-plan-for-neighborhood-alleyways>


Polk3

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/lower-polk-neighbors-finalizes-vision-plan-for-neighborhood-alleyways>


After 18 months, goals have been set for improving six Lower Polk
alleyways—and funding is beginning to develop for some of them.

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/lower-polk-neighbors-finalizes-vision-plan-for-neighborhood-alleyways>

Polk
 <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/polk>


            Hoodline

About us

<http://hoodline.com/about> Company blog

<http://blog.hoodline.com/> Write for us

<http://hoodline.com/writing> Work with us

<http://hoodline.com/jobs> Contact us

<http://hoodline.com/contact> Terms of use

<http://hoodline.com/terms> Hoodline privacy policy

<https://ripple.co/privacy-policy/>


            Our products

News

<http://hoodline.com/> Send us a tip

<http://hoodline.com/tips/new>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Events

<http://hoodline.com/events> Submit an event

<http://hoodline.com/events/submissions/new>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Neighborhood Kit

<http://hoodline.com/kit>


            Follow

Sign up <http://hoodline.com/signup> | Log in
<http://hoodline.com/login?return_to=%2F2016%2F06%2Fhow-the-lower-polk-cbd-tackles-homelessness-with-compassion>

<https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/hoodline/id814699998>


            Neighborhoods we cover

Alamo Square

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/alamo-square> Bayview

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/bayview> Castro

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/castro> Chinatown

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/chinatown> Civic Center

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/civic-center> Cole Valley

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/cole-valley> Cow Hollow

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/cow-hollow> Divisadero

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/divisadero> Dogpatch

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/dogpatch> Duboce Triangle

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/duboce-triangle> Embarcadero

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/embarcadero> Excelsior

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/excelsior> Fillmore

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/fillmore> Financial District

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/financial-district> Fisherman's Wharf

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/fishermans-wharf> Glen Park

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/glen-park>
Hayes Valley

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/hayes-valley> Ingleside

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/ingleside> Inner Richmond

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/inner-richmond> Inner Sunset

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/inner-sunset> Jackson Square

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/jackson-square> Japantown

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/japantown> Lake Shore

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lake-shore> Lower Haight

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-haight> Lower Nob Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-nob-hill> Lower Pac Heights

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-pac-heights> Marina

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/marina> Mid-Market

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mid-market> Mission

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mission> Nob Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/nob-hill> Noe Valley

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/noe-valley> NoPa

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/nopa>
North Beach

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/north-beach> Ocean Beach

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/ocean-beach> Outer Richmond

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/outer-richmond> Outer Sunset

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/outer-sunset> Pacific Heights

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/pacific-heights> Polk

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/polk> Potrero Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/potrero-hill> Russian Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/russian-hill> SoMa

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/soma> Telegraph Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/telegraph-hill> Tenderloin

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/tenderloin> Twin Peaks

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/twin-peaks> Union Square

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/union-square> Upper Haight

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/upper-haight> West Portal

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/west-portal> Western Addition

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/western-addition>
Alamo Square

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/alamo-square> Bayview

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/bayview> Castro

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/castro> Chinatown

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/chinatown> Civic Center

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/civic-center> Cole Valley

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/cole-valley> Cow Hollow

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/cow-hollow> Divisadero

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/divisadero> Dogpatch

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/dogpatch> Duboce Triangle

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/duboce-triangle> Embarcadero

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/embarcadero> Excelsior

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/excelsior> Fillmore

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/fillmore> Financial District

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/financial-district> Fisherman's Wharf

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/fishermans-wharf> Glen Park

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/glen-park> Hayes Valley

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/hayes-valley> Ingleside

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/ingleside> Inner Richmond

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/inner-richmond> Inner Sunset

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/inner-sunset> Jackson Square

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/jackson-square> Japantown

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/japantown> Lake Shore

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lake-shore> Lower Haight

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-haight> Lower Nob Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-nob-hill> Lower Pac Heights

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-pac-heights> Marina

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/marina> Mid-Market

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mid-market> Mission

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mission> Nob Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/nob-hill> Noe Valley

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/noe-valley> NoPa

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/nopa> North Beach

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/north-beach> Ocean Beach

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/ocean-beach> Outer Richmond

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/outer-richmond> Outer Sunset

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/outer-sunset> Pacific Heights

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/pacific-heights> Polk

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/polk> Potrero Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/potrero-hill> Russian Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/russian-hill> SoMa

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/soma> Telegraph Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/telegraph-hill> Tenderloin

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/tenderloin> Twin Peaks

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/twin-peaks> Union Square

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/union-square> Upper Haight

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/upper-haight> West Portal

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/west-portal> Western Addition

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/western-addition>

×

Keep up with Polk news!
Hoodline has your neighborhood covered. Sign up to stay in the know.
Yes, I Want Access!

No Thanks

×

Thanks for subscribing! Please check your email for further instructions.
