KQED Menu

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Menu

    <#>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs & Blogs

        <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Special Coverage

        <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs <#> Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California


  KQED News <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

Search

<#search-container>


  KQED News Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Search for:

San Francisco Chronicle <http://www.sfchronicle.com/>


  How Many Are Homeless? A Question With Many Answers

A San Francisco homeless man drags his tent down the sidewalk on 13th
Street between Bryant and Harrison as the San Francisco Public Works
Department's "alley crew" begins cleaning an encampment Wednesday, July
1, 2015. The alley crew visits homeless encampments on a daily basis to
disinfect the ground and haul away refuse.

A San Francisco homeless man drags his tent down the sidewalk on 13th
Street between Bryant and Harrison as the San Francisco Public Works
Department's "alley crew" begins cleaning an encampment Wednesday, July
1, 2015. The alley crew visits homeless encampments on a daily basis to
disinfect the ground and haul away refuse. (/Loren Elliott/San Francisco
Chronicle/)

By *Joaquin Palomino <http://www.sfchronicle.com/author/joaquin-palomino/>
San Francisco Chronicle*
June 28, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/how-many-are-homeless-a-question-with-many-answers/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/how-many-are-homeless-a-question-with-many-answers/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/how-many-are-homeless-a-question-with-many-answers/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/how-many-are-homeless-a-question-with-many-answers/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/how-many-are-homeless-a-question-with-many-answers/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/how-many-are-homeless-a-question-with-many-answers/?share=email&nb=1>
*

How many people are homeless in San Francisco?

That question is the basis for the most frequent Google search in the
city regarding homelessness. The answer, though, is elusive.

Multiple government agencies have attempted to calculate the scope of
homelessness, but accurately measuring it or its social and economic
impacts is difficult, if not impossible. Homelessness can take many
forms and is often a temporary status, making it hard to reliably track.

*Homelessness is a complex issue. Learn more >>
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>*

sfproject3 <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>

The city hopes to build a more comprehensive information system, making
it easier to count and provide assistance to homeless people. Currently,
however, estimates on the number of people living on San Francisco’s
streets — and the costs associated with them — vary dramatically.

The figure 6,686 is the most widely circulated approximation of those
who are homeless in the city. That number comes from a count made on a
single night in January 2015, when volunteers fanned out across San
Francisco and identified people who appeared to be sleeping on the
streets, in parks, in cars, or anywhere else not meant for human habitation.

Those staying in a temporary shelter that evening were also counted to
come up with the final estimate.

The biennial survey — conducted in cities across the country at the
behest of the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development —
provides the only consistent and uniform data enumerating street people.
The information from those counts influences everything from federal
funding for homeless services to newspaper headlines to discussions at
City Hall. But they stem from an imprecise science.

homeless_data_web
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/wp-content/uploads/sites/10/2016/06/homeless_data_web.jpg>

In some cities, including San Francisco, volunteers are told not to
speak with the people they’re counting for safety reasons, forcing them
to rely on visual cues. Some, like a person curled up in a sleeping bag
on the street, are pretty clear. Others, like someone pushing a cart
full of recyclables, are less definitive.

“It’s a big undercount, because they just look at someone and assume a
housing status,” said Jennifer Friedenbach, executive director of the
San Francisco advocacy group Coalition to End Homelessness.

The HUD survey also excludes people in jail, in hospitals, sleeping on a
friend’s couch or waiting for a shelter bed, as well as individuals who
evaded the canvassers. The thousands of formerly homeless residing in
permanent supportive housing — which offers a suite of services along
with an apartment room for life — are also excluded from the figure.

“It’s not perfect, but it’s a good snapshot in time of the homeless,”
said Eduardo Cabrera, a spokesman for HUD who participated in San
Francisco’s most recent survey. “At this point, it’s the best tool we
have to measure the extent of homelessness.”

A homeless person sleeps on Market St. in San Francisco.
A homeless person sleeps on Market St. in San Francisco. (Michael
Macor/San Francisco Chronicle)

*9,975 Homeless in the City?*

San Francisco’s Department of Public Health maintains a robust database
that accounts for every homeless person that uses medical, mental health
or substance abuse services in the city.

Unlike the HUD count, which takes place over just a few hours, Public
Health’s database, called the Coordinated Care Management System, tracks
people who have experienced homelessness at any point during an entire
fiscal year.

“It’s better for getting a sense of how many people in a community are
touched by homelessness over a longer time span,” said Barry Lee, a Penn
State sociology professor familiar with similar tracking systems. “By
its nature, homelessness is episodic, it’s fluid.”

In fiscal 2014-15, Public Health’s CCMS reported 9,975 homeless
individuals in the city, a figure nearly 50 percent higher than the
biennial homeless count’s estimate (32 percent higher when including the
supplemental youth count). The database, which provides a detailed
breakdown of the health conditions and demographics of the people it
tracks, paints a stark picture.

In the 2014-15 fiscal year:

  * More than half of the homeless people in CCMS had a history of
    depression or psychoses.
  * Roughly 60 percent had, at some point, abused drugs or alcohol.
  * A third had been intermittently homeless for longer than a decade,
    up from 9 percent in 2007. Nearly half of those individuals were
    African American. Just 6 percent of the city’s general population is
    black.
  * The number of homeless people age 60 or older jumped 30 percent,
    from 856 individuals in 2007 to 1,103 last year.
  * 79 homeless people died in 2014-15. As of April, 87 homeless
    individuals had died in 2015-16, with three months left in the
    fiscal year.
  * Homeless people cost the city more than $150 million in emergency
    health care last year, including ambulance rides, emergency room
    visits, placements in sobering centers and other services. A
    relatively small number accrued significantly high care costs.
  * The 1,320 homeless people needing the most aid required $108 million
    in emergency medical and mental health services last year — or
    roughly $80,000 on average — accounting for nearly a quarter of all
    such costs in San Francisco.

“They’re a very vulnerable, very sick, and very high-cost group,” said
Maria X. Martinez, a Public Health director who helps oversee CCMS.
“They’re the people you’re stepping over on the streets.”

Public Health’s information system has helped San Francisco target and
track its most needy residents, but it has a practical limitation: It
only captures those using medical, mental health or substance abuse
services.

Younger street people, who are typically healthier, are
under-represented, according to Friedenbach. The more than 2,000
schoolchildren living without a stable home, according to the San
Francisco Unified School District, are also probably missing from the
database.

Friedenbach estimates there are closer to 13,000 homeless people in the
city over the course of an entire year.

A homeless man, uses a pew to catch up on some sleep recently at St.
Boniface Catholic church. The highly-regarded Gubbio project at St.
Boniface church in San Francisco's Tenderloin community is facing hard
times. Nearly 100 homeless men and women, who are now able to sleep in
the pews and use the church bathroom, are being forced back onto the
streets early next week due to shortened hours and a lack of funding.
A homeless man, uses a pew to catch up on some sleep recently at St.
Boniface Catholic church. The highly-regarded Gubbio project at St.
Boniface church in San Francisco’s Tenderloin community is facing hard
times. Nearly 100 homeless men and women, who are now able to sleep in
the pews and use the church bathroom, are being forced back onto the
streets early next week due to shortened hours and a lack of funding.
(Brant Ward/San Francisco Chronicle)

*Growing or Shrinking?*

While Public Health’s database shows the homeless population is getting
older, sicker, and spending more time on the streets, it also suggests
there are now fewer of them in San Francisco. In 2007, the city health
department recorded nearly 12,000 homeless individuals.

The data run counter to the point-in-time estimates. Both HUD and the
biennial count show the number of homeless, particularly those without
shelter, has grown over the past decade — a trend that matches public
perception in the city.

“I’ve been here 26 years, and the homeless problem is worse than it has
ever been,” said Candace Combs, a massage studio owner and president of
the Mission Creek Merchants Association. “When I walk by these
encampments, as a woman, it doesn’t feel safe.”

Combs isn’t the only person concerned about the growing number of tarps
and tents on the sidewalks; there has been a surge in 311 complaints
regarding encampments in recent years.

In 2013, the city’s 311 line recorded 898 encampment-related grievances,
or between two and three per day, according to a Chronicle analysis. As
of mid-May this year, there had been 6,982 complaints about homeless
camps, or more than 50 per day. (Andy Maimoni, deputy director of 311,
attributed some of the growth to a new category for homeless camps added
to the mobile app in October.)

311 complaints, of course, don’t measure the number of homeless people,
but public sentiment. The spike in such grievances may not reflect a
growing homeless population, just a more visible one.

“There used to a be a lot of marginal space, but that has become
valuable real estate in a lot of places,” Lee, of Penn State, said,
referring not just to the situation in San Francisco, but many parts of
the nation. “You might be seeing more people out and about, but it could
be because they have nowhere else to go.”

A homeless man shows his rings he has collected over the past 5 years.
He spends his days sitting in the branches of an Australian Tea Tree
reading books and taking with passers by in Golden Gate Park.
A homeless man shows his rings he has collected over the past 5 years.
He spends his days sitting in the branches of an Australian Tea Tree
reading books and taking with passers by in Golden Gate Park. (Michael
Macor/San Francisco Chronicle)

*Creating a Better System*

The difficulty of accurately tracking how many people are homeless isn’t
unique to San Francisco. Due to its often transient and temporary
nature, it’s virtually impossible to make a precise count of homeless
individuals.

“I don’t think any city will ever say, ‘We feel confident that we have
counted every single homeless person,’” said Nan Roman, president of
National Alliance to End Homelessness in Washington, D.C. “But you can
get close, you can get the dimensions, and if you’re consistent in the
count methodology, you can measure progress from year to year.”

Currently, San Francisco doesn’t have a single information network to
track homeless people, but rather a number of separate databases managed
by different service providers. Jeff Kositsky, director of San
Francisco’s new Department of Homelessness and Supportive Housing, hopes
to solve that problem.

Kositsky plans to unite the disparate homeless information systems,
including the Department of Public Health’s CCMS, allowing the city to
better track its neediest residents and connect them to appropriate
services — whether that’s housing, a shelter bed or medical care.

Putting all services under one roof should not only make it easier for
the city to track the number of people living on the streets, it should
also make it simpler for homeless people to access care.

“If you’re homeless, you may need to be assessed three, four different
times, answering the same questions each time; it’s unfair, inefficient
and not respectful of people we’re trying to serve,” Kositsky said.
“Clients have to get into many different lines to access services, and
we’re going to ask them to get into one line.”

Kositsky anticipates the new homeless system will be partially running
by next October, and fully functional by the fall of 2018.

/Joaquin Palomino is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. Email:
jpalomino@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @JoaquinPalomino/

/About this project: This week, the Chronicle joins more than 70 other
news organizations to focus San Francisco’s attention on the seemingly
intractable problem of homelessness in our city. Videos, interactive
graphics, and coverage from other media can be found online at
sfchronicle.com/homeless and sfhomelessproject.com, and on Twitter at
@bayareahomeless. Join the online conversation at #sfhomelessproject./

Explore: Housing <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>, News
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/news/>, homelessness
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/homelessness/>, San Francisco
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/san-francisco/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/how-many-are-homeless-a-question-with-many-answers/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/how-many-are-homeless-a-question-with-many-answers/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/how-many-are-homeless-a-question-with-many-answers/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/how-many-are-homeless-a-question-with-many-answers/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/how-many-are-homeless-a-question-with-many-answers/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/how-many-are-homeless-a-question-with-many-answers/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

0 Comments
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/how-many-are-homeless-a-question-with-many-answers/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related

S.F. Homeless Problem Looks the Same as It Did 20 Years Ago

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/endless-efforts-meager-results>

Homelessness: You've Got Questions, We've Got Answers

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/homelessness-youve-got-questions-weve-got-answers>

How San Francisco and L.A. Are Addressing Homelessness

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/how-san-francisco-and-la-are-addressing-homelessness>

S.F. Proposition Q Would Ban Tents on City Sidewalks

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/09/16/s-f-proposition-q-would-ban-tents-on-city-sidewalks/>

San Francisco Adds Beds for the Homeless as Rain Pounds the City

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/01/23/san-francisco-adds-beds-for-the-homeless-as-rain-pounds-the-city>

Tent Cities Compete With Super Bowl City for Attention

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/02/02/tent-cities-compete-with-super-bowl-city-for-attention>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>


  Post navigation

Prev Persistence, Community Support Help S.F. Neighborhood Fight
Homelessness

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/persistence-community-support-help-san-francisco-neighborhood-fight-homelessness/>
Next Oakland City Council Votes to Block Coal Shipments Through Port

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/oakland-city-council-votes-to-block-coal-shipments-through-port/>



  About The California Report

The California Report provides daily coverage of news and culture
throughout the state.

  * Contributors <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/contributors/>
  * Contact <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/contact-the-california-report/>
  * Tune In <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tune-in/>


  About KQED

  * About <http://www.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://www.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://www.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://www.kqed.org/about/help/index.jsp>


  Support for The California Report is Provided By

  * Eric and Wendy Schmidt <http://www.theschmidt.org/>
  * The California Endowment <http://www.calendow.org/>
  * California HealthCare Foundation <http://www.chcf.org/>
  * Rowbotham <http://www.rowbotham.com/>
  * The Westly Foundation <http://www.westly.org/> 



  * The James Irvine Foundation <http://www.irvine.org/>
  * Barracuda Networks <https://www.barracuda.com/>
  * Blach Construction <http://www.blach.com/>
  * Digital Foundry <http://www.digitalfoundry.com/>
  * Wharton San Francisco <http://sf.wharton.upenn.edu/> 

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

[blank image]
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.


  Get the facts!

Close

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil
:)
