
	Hoodline wordmark
	The "Hoodline" wordmark or logo, spelled out in a bold font.
	

<http://hoodline.com/>

  * News

    <http://hoodline.com/>
  * Events

    <http://hoodline.com/events>

//

  * Log in
    <http://hoodline.com/login?return_to=%2F2016%2F06%2Fhow-the-homeless-vote-could-impact-this-november-s-elections>

  * Sign up <http://hoodline.com/signup>

//


  How The Homeless Vote Could Impact This November’s Elections

Main image downing homelessvoting
All you need to register to vote in San Francisco is a cross street and
a mailing address. (Photo: Zac Bowling/Flickr
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/zbowling/22760893261/>)

Wed. June 29, 2016, 11:01am
Icon user
Icon user
Screen shot 2015 12 10 at 3.27.15 pm
by Shane Downing
@SCdowning <http://twitter.com/SCdowning>
website <http://www.scdowning.com/>
Icon map
Icon map
neighborhoods
Citywide, Civic Center <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/civic-center>,
SoMa <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/soma>, Tenderloin
<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/tenderloin>
Icon location
Icon location
location
1 Dr Carlton B Goodlett Pl, San Francisco, CA 9410

<https://maps.google.com/maps?ll=37.77926,-122.419265&z=16&t=m&hl=en-US&gl=US&mapclient=apiv3>
Map Data
Map data ©2016 Google
Map DataMap data ©2016 Google
Map data ©2016 Google
Terms of Use <https://www.google.com/intl/en-US_US/help/terms_maps.html>
Report a map error
<https://www.google.com/maps/@37.7792597,-122.4192647,16z/data=!10m1!1e1!12b1?source=apiv3&rapsrc=apiv3>
Map
Terrain
Satellite
Labels
SF Shipyard <http://hoodline.com/ads/68/118/2>

/[Editor's Note: Hoodline is participating in today's SF Homeless
Project <https://www.facebook.com/sfhomelessproject>, in which more than
70 area publications are each covering homelessness issues in their own
ways./

/While we already write about these issues often, we hope that our
stories today will add more neighborhood context to this very
complicated topic, and to the great work being published elsewhere. You
can read more about the project here
<http://www.sfgate.com/homeless/article/SF-Homeless-Project-Letter-to-the-City-8326254.php>.]/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Last year was the first time that I voted in my life,” said Billy, a
middle-age man who has spent the majority of his life in jail. “I have a
current address, in an SRO, but I don’t really consider this permanent
housing.”

Billy participated in the primary elections that took place earlier this
month. “In a way, it’s kind of like a goal, because I’m finally marked
<http://sfgov.org/elections/frequently-asked-questions-faq#Question9> as
a citizen and not as a felon.” When asked what issues he’ll be paying
attention to in November, Billy said that “homelessness is a priority.
I’m going to vote on that.”

In light of the recent
<http://www.sfweekly.com/thesnitch/2016/06/22/city-that-spends-millions-criminalizing-homeless-might-criminalize-more-homeless>
"Promotion of Safe and Open Sidewalks" initiative, not to mention this
week’s media blitz, the majority of voters in San Francisco will be
well-versed in the politicized complexities of homelessness come
November. However, many may be unaware that at the center of this
swirling maelstrom of city ordinances and million dollar budgets and
housing shortages, stand (sit, or lie) approximately 6,686... wait for
it... voters.

A polling location in San Francisco. *Photo: Todd Lappin/Flickr
<https://hoodwork-production.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/story/image/23345/Image_1_Downing_HomelessVoting.jpg>*

Yes, in San Francisco, individuals without a permanent address (i.e.
people experiencing homelessness) can register to vote
<https://sfgov.org/elections/sites/default/files/VoterRegistrationDrive_June2016_0.pdf>.
All they need is a valid street corner to establish their voting
precinct and a P.O. box to serve as their mailing address.

“We find homeless people to be some of the most politically and informed
members of our community,” said Jennifer Friedenbach, executive director
of San Francisco’s Coalition on Homelessness. “They can and do vote;
they simply need a cross street to precinct and then a mailing address.”

To put that into perspective, San Francisco learned last week
<http://www.sfgate.com/bayarea/article/Jane-Kim-takes-slight-lead-over-Scott-Wiener-in-8315747.php>
that for the first time in the state Senate primary
<http://hoodline.com/2016/04/district-11-state-senate-race-debate-recap?utm_source=story&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=stories>,
candidate Jane Kim pulled ahead of fellow supervisor and candidate Scott
Wiener by 0.3 percent (116,289 votes to 115,916 votes). Although some
final votes remained to be counted, the margin separating the two
candidates stood at 373 voters, or 18 times fewer people than there are
estimated to be homeless individuals in our city.

Polls are open to all voters, including people who find themselves
homeless and who have registered. *Photo: Scott Beale/Flickr
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/laughingsquid/1893232754/>*

“The Department of Elections registers people who are homeless just as
we register other eligible voters,” said Jill Fox, the San Francisco
Department of Elections outreach manager. “The Department of Elections
Outreach staff regularly attend Project Homeless Connect and other
venues where people who are homeless or in housing transition can
register to vote.”

According to the Department of Elections, there are 677 active San
Francisco voters who list cross streets rather than a street address as
their residential address on their voter registration. Of those, 97 have
registered to vote in 2016.

Fox said that instructions about registering
<http://sfgov.org/elections/sites/default/files/Documents/VoterEducation/Voter%20Registration%20Drive%20November%202016.pdf>
individuals who are experiencing homelessness or transitional housing
are included in the department’s voter registration instructions that
are provided to campaigns, candidates, and community groups that
register voters.

One such community group is the Adult Education Center — and homeless
shelters — of Episcopal Community Services, an organization that helps
homeless and very low-income individuals obtain essential services
primarily in the city’s Tenderloin, SoMa and Civic Center neighborhoods.
Katherine Powell is an instructor at the Adult Education Center, and she
teaches literacy classes and adult secondary education classes. In fact,
Billy is one of her GED students.

People waiting to vote (2008). *Photo: matisse__enzer/Flickr
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/28804910@N06/3002328409/>*

In her role, Powell liaises with the city’s Department of Elections.
“I’ve arranged that before each election that we have, someone comes
from the department and does a really great presentation and brings
registration materials. We also provide on-going voter education and
on-going, on-site registration for people.”

Powell’s adult students are diverse, ranging in age from 22- to
72-years-old and ranging in housing from SROs to shelters to on the
streets. Like Friedenbach, Powell is impressed by this demographic’s
eagerness to participate in the political process. “It’s interesting to
me,” said Powell. “If you think of Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs
<http://www.simplypsychology.org/maslow.html>, the theory is you gotta
take care of the main needs before you can think about yourself as part
of the larger society. But these people don’t have those basic needs
taken care of well yet they’re driven to pursue their education and to
participate in society.”

*Photo: Lynn Friedman/Flickr
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/lynnfriedman/8103285823/>*

According to Powell, her adult students are very much thinking about
these upcoming elections in November. “It impacts their lives. We sit
down with them and go over the registration form and fill things out
with. There are things that we want to share with them like where to
vote and what’s coming up and what’s going to be on the ballot.” Powell
noted that she and her colleagues stick to the city’s Department of
Elections’ policies, and don’t instruct individuals what or whom to vote
for come election day. “We don’t tell them how to vote,” Powell said.
“We clarify issues for them.”

Also available to clarify issues and register people to vote is the
Department of Elections. “The City Hall Voting Center is a good option
for people who are homeless or in housing transition,” said Fox. “It is
open for a month prior to every election, fully accessible, and has
staff on hand to answer any questions.”

A red, white, and blue Civic Center. *Photo: GPS/Flickr
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/zoxcleb/15098436493/>*

As we approach the November elections, we would be wise to recognize
this demographic of non-permanently housed individuals as a population
that can make a difference in election outcomes, especially at the local
level.

“They have some weight to throw around,” said Powell. “And I’ll say, the
situation that our city is facing right now, it’s a very important
voice. The guy that you see lying on the street one morning might be
sitting at a desk the next afternoon working on his GED and the next day
he might be an educated voter.”

“The emphasis is on the validity of the voice of this demographic,”
Powell said. “What we’re talking about is the disenfranchised exercising
their right to vote. We’re all in this together.”
share this story:


      Never miss a story.

Subscribe today to get Hoodline delivered straight to your inbox.

subscribe:

subscribe


  Keep reading about Civic Center
  <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/civic-center> SoMa
  <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/soma> Tenderloin
  <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/tenderloin>


Related:


  SFPD Seeks Public's Help Identifying Fraud Suspect

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/sfpd-seeks-public-s-help-identifying-fraud-suspect>


Fraud suspect

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/sfpd-seeks-public-s-help-identifying-fraud-suspect>


The SFPD is seeking help identifying a suspect who allegedly used a
victim's credit cards to purchase $2,000 worth of merchandise at City
Target in the Metreon.

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/sfpd-seeks-public-s-help-identifying-fraud-suspect>

SoMa
 <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/soma>


  SFMTA Approves Safety Improvements For 7th & 8th Streets

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/sfmta-approves-safety-improvements-7th-and-8th>


7th 1

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/sfmta-approves-safety-improvements-7th-and-8th>


The project will bring parking-protected bike lanes, improved
intersections, boarding islands at bus stops and other pedestrian safety
improvements.

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/sfmta-approves-safety-improvements-7th-and-8th>

SoMa
 <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/soma>


  Tenderloin Couple Celebrates 69th Anniversary At Home In SRO

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/tenderloin-couple-celebrates-69th-anniversary-at-home-in-sro>


Hoodlinethekiss67years

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/tenderloin-couple-celebrates-69th-anniversary-at-home-in-sro>


It’s quite an achievement of devotion in the City by the Bay, but
especially the Tenderloin, San Francisco’s poorest neighborhood where
people on average die in their mid-50s.

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/tenderloin-couple-celebrates-69th-anniversary-at-home-in-sro>

Tenderloin
 <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/tenderloin>


            Hoodline

About us

<http://hoodline.com/about> Company blog

<http://blog.hoodline.com/> Write for us

<http://hoodline.com/writing> Work with us

<http://hoodline.com/jobs> Contact us

<http://hoodline.com/contact> Terms of use

<http://hoodline.com/terms> Hoodline privacy policy

<https://ripple.co/privacy-policy/>


            Our products

News

<http://hoodline.com/> Send us a tip

<http://hoodline.com/tips/new>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Events

<http://hoodline.com/events> Submit an event

<http://hoodline.com/events/submissions/new>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Neighborhood Kit

<http://hoodline.com/kit>


            Follow

Sign up <http://hoodline.com/signup> | Log in
<http://hoodline.com/login?return_to=%2F2016%2F06%2Fhow-the-homeless-vote-could-impact-this-november-s-elections>

<https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/hoodline/id814699998>


            Neighborhoods we cover

Alamo Square

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/alamo-square> Bayview

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/bayview> Bernal Heights

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/bernal-heights> Castro

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/castro> Chinatown

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/chinatown> Civic Center

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/civic-center> Cole Valley

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/cole-valley> Cow Hollow

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/cow-hollow> Divisadero

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/divisadero> Dogpatch

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/dogpatch> Duboce Triangle

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/duboce-triangle> Embarcadero

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/embarcadero> Excelsior

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/excelsior> Fillmore

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/fillmore> Financial District

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/financial-district> Fisherman's Wharf

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/fishermans-wharf>
Glen Park

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/glen-park> Hayes Valley

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/hayes-valley> Ingleside

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/ingleside> Inner Richmond

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/inner-richmond> Inner Sunset

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/inner-sunset> Jackson Square

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/jackson-square> Japantown

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/japantown> Lake Shore

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lake-shore> Lower Haight

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-haight> Lower Nob Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-nob-hill> Lower Pac Heights

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-pac-heights> Marina

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/marina> Mid-Market

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mid-market> Mission

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mission> Nob Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/nob-hill> Noe Valley

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/noe-valley>
NoPa

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/nopa> North Beach

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/north-beach> Ocean Beach

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/ocean-beach> Outer Richmond

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/outer-richmond> Outer Sunset

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/outer-sunset> Pacific Heights

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/pacific-heights> Polk

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/polk> Potrero Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/potrero-hill> Russian Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/russian-hill> SoMa

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/soma> Telegraph Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/telegraph-hill> Tenderloin

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/tenderloin> Twin Peaks

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/twin-peaks> Union Square

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/union-square> Upper Haight

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/upper-haight> West Portal

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/west-portal>
Western Addition

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/western-addition>
Alamo Square

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/alamo-square> Bayview

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/bayview> Bernal Heights

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/bernal-heights> Castro

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/castro> Chinatown

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/chinatown> Civic Center

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/civic-center> Cole Valley

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/cole-valley> Cow Hollow

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/cow-hollow> Divisadero

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/divisadero> Dogpatch

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/dogpatch> Duboce Triangle

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/duboce-triangle> Embarcadero

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/embarcadero> Excelsior

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/excelsior> Fillmore

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/fillmore> Financial District

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/financial-district> Fisherman's Wharf

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/fishermans-wharf> Glen Park

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/glen-park> Hayes Valley

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/hayes-valley> Ingleside

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/ingleside> Inner Richmond

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/inner-richmond> Inner Sunset

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/inner-sunset> Jackson Square

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/jackson-square> Japantown

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/japantown> Lake Shore

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lake-shore> Lower Haight

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-haight> Lower Nob Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-nob-hill> Lower Pac Heights

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-pac-heights> Marina

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/marina> Mid-Market

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mid-market> Mission

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mission> Nob Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/nob-hill> Noe Valley

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/noe-valley> NoPa

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/nopa> North Beach

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/north-beach> Ocean Beach

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/ocean-beach> Outer Richmond

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/outer-richmond> Outer Sunset

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/outer-sunset> Pacific Heights

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/pacific-heights> Polk

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/polk> Potrero Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/potrero-hill> Russian Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/russian-hill> SoMa

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/soma> Telegraph Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/telegraph-hill> Tenderloin

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/tenderloin> Twin Peaks

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/twin-peaks> Union Square

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/union-square> Upper Haight

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/upper-haight> West Portal

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/west-portal> Western Addition

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/western-addition>

×

Keep up with Civic Center, SoMa, and Tenderloin news!
Hoodline has your neighborhood covered. Sign up to stay in the know.
Yes, I Want Access!

No Thanks

×

Thanks for subscribing! Please check your email for further instructions.
