  * <http://www.sfgate.com/>
  * Autos <http://www.sfgate.com/cars/>
  * Jobs <http://www.sfgate.com/jobs/>
  * Real Estate <http://www.sfgate.com/realestate/>
  *

    <http://weather.sfgate.com/US/CA/San_Francisco.html>
    <http://weather.sfgate.com/US/CA/San_Francisco.html>

  * e-edition <http://www.sfchronicle.com/e-edition/>
  * Subscribe <http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe>
  *
    Sign In


     


              Sign in using

    	

    	

    	

    	


                or

    Email Address or Password is incorrect.

    Email address field is required.

    Password field is required.
    Show password
    Forgot password? <javascript:void(0)>
    Keep me signed in


    Don't have a profile?


                Don't have a subscription?

    Sign up <javascript:void(0)> Subscribe

    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>

    By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>


  Opinion <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/>

  *
    Home <http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
  *
    SFGATE <http://www.sfgate.com/>
  *
    Local <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/>
      o
        Pot legalization
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/pot-legalization/>
      o
        Columnists
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/columnists/>
      o
        San Francisco
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/sanfrancisco/>
      o
        Bay Area
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/bayarea/>
      o
        Crime
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/crime/>
      o
        Environment
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/environment/>
      o
        Election 2016
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/election/2016/>
      o
        Health
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/lifestyle/health/>
      o
        Obituaries
        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/sfgate/>
      o
        California Drought
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/drought/>
  *
    US & World <http://www.sfchronicle.com/us-world/>
      o
        US
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/us-world/us/>
      o
        World
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/us-world/world/>
      o
        Politics & Policy
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/us-world/politics-policy/>
      o
        Environment
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/us-world/environment/>
      o
        Science
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/us-world/science/>
  *
    Sports <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/>
      o
        49ers
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/49ers/>
      o
        Raiders
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/raiders/>
      o
        Giants
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/giants/>
      o
        A's
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/athletics/>
      o
        Warriors
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/warriors/>
      o
        Cal
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/cal_sports/>
      o
        College
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/college/>
      o
        Stanford
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/stanford_sports/>
      o
        Sharks
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/sharks/>
      o
        High School
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/high-school/>
      o
        More Sports
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/other/>
  *
    Biz & Tech <http://www.sfchronicle.com/business/>
      o
        VisionSF
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/visionsf>
      o
        Technology
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/business/technology/>
      o
        Real Estate
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/business/realestate/>
      o
        Driving the future
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/drivingthefuture/>
      o
        Markets
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/business/markets/>
  *
    Opinion <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/>
      o
        Editorials
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/editorials/>
      o
        Letters to the editor
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/letters-editor/>
      o
        Op-ed columns
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/op-ed-columns/>
      o
        Insight
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/insight/>
      o
        Open Forum
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/openforum/>
      o
        Submit your opinions
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/article/submit-your-opinion-7244189.php?t=3678db0449>

  *
    Style <http://www.sfchronicle.com/style/>
      o
        Scene
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/style/scene/>
      o
        Fashion
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/style/fashion/>
      o
        Shopping
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/style/shopping/>
      o
        Weddings
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/style/weddings/>
      o
        Top Shops 2016
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/top-shops-2016/>
  *
    Food+Home <http://www.sfchronicle.com/foodandhome/>
      o
        Restaurants
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/foodandhome/restaurants/>
      o
        Wine & Beer
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/foodandhome/wine/>
      o
        Recipes
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/foodandhome/recipes/>
      o
        Cook Your Week
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/cookyourweek/>
      o
        Top 100 Restaurants
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/top100restaurants>
      o
        Home Design
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/foodandhome/home-design/>
      o
        Habitat
        <http://digital.olivesoftware.com/Olive/ODN/Habitat/default.aspx>
  *
    A&E <http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/>
      o
        Movies & TV
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/movies-tv/>
      o
        Arts & Theater
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/arts-theater/>
      o
        Music
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/music/>
      o
        Music Festivals Guide
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/music-festivals/>
      o
        Books
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/books/>
      o
        Bad Reporter
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/badreporter/>
      o
        Horoscopes
        <http://www.sfgate.com/horoscope/>
      o
        Comics
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/comics/>
      o
        Games
        <http://www.sfgate.com/games>
      o
        Movie Listings
        <http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/movies/listings/search>
      o
        SFMOMA
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sfmoma/>
      o
        Leah Garchik
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/author/leah-garchik/>
      o
        Best of Jon Carroll
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/bestofjoncarroll/>
      o
        The Literary City
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/theliterarycity/>
  *
    Lifestyle <http://www.sfchronicle.com/lifestyle/>
      o
        Style
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/style>
      o
        Health
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/lifestyle/health/>
      o
        Outdoors
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/lifestyle/outdoors/>
      o
        Travel
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/lifestyle/travel/>
      o
        Tops Shops 2016
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/top-shops-2016/>
  *
    Photos <http://www.sfchronicle.com/thetake/>
      o
        From the Archive
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/thetakefromthearchive/>
      o
        Photos of the Week
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/thetakepotw/>
      o
        City Exposed
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/takecityexposed/>
      o
        Field of Vision
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/fieldofvision/>
      o
        The Regulars
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/theregulars/>
  *
    Travel <http://www.sfchronicle.com/lifestyle/travel/>
  *
    In-Depth <http://www.sfchronicle.com/special-reports/>
      o
        Beyond Homelessness
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/>
      o
        Top 100 Restaurants
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/top100restaurants>
      o
        AIDS Survivors
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/living-with-aids/>
      o
        Chronicle Covers
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/covers/>
      o
        The Najee Chronicles
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/najee-harris/>
      o
        Seafood's new normal
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/california-seafood-collapse/>
      o
        Rising sea levels
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/sea-level-rise/>
      o
        Bar Stars 2016
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/food/article/Bar-Stars-2016-A-drink-for-everyone-9984049.php>

      o
        Lucas Museum art
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/lucas-art/>
      o
        Captive Lives
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/captive-lives/>
      o
        Airbnb Project 2016
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/airbnb/>
      o
        NorCal Brewery Map
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/brewerymap/>
      o
        Our SF: Archive
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/oursf/>
  *
    Membership <http://www.sfchronicle.com/membership/>
      o
        About Membership
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/membership/faq/>
      o
        Exclusive offers
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/membership/#offers>
      o
        Join Now
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/?ipid=membership>
      o
        Manage my account
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/account>
      o
        Archive
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/archive/>
  *
    Store <https://sfchronicle.myshopify.com/>


    How SF will re-envision, integrate its homelessness services

By Jeff Kositsky

June 28, 2016 Updated: June 28, 2016 4:55pm

  *

    <javascript:hst_print();>
  *

    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/openforum/article/How-SF-will-re-envision-integrate-its-8330631.php#comments>

    27

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

John Rao sits with dog Toby at a Navigation Center, a long-term shelter.
Photo: Gabrielle Lurie Gabrielle Lurie, Special To The Chronicle
Photo: Gabrielle Lurie Gabrielle Lurie, Special To The Chronicle

  *

    <javascript:hst_print();>
  *

    <#comments>
    27

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

John Rao sits with dog Toby at a Navigation Center, a long-term shelter.
John Rao sits with dog Toby at a Navigation Center, a long-term...

On Friday, the city of San Francisco will take a bold step toward
re-invisioning the way homelessness is addressed by launching the
Department of Homelessness and Supportive Housing. More than 23,000
homeless people in San Francisco have left the streets or shelters for
permanent housing since 2004. With nearly 7,000 people experiencing
homelessness and 3,500 of those people currently on our streets, we have
an urgent task at hand.

As we launch this department, I want to thank city staff and nonprofit
partners for their hard work and commitment to ending homelessness.
While many cities have had double-digit increases in homelessness, the
homeless population in San Francisco has only increased moderately. It
is this passionate dedication that has positioned us well to take
advantage of the moment to create lasting change in our community.

Despite our past successes, there is much to be done. As the first
director of the Department of Homelessness and Supportive Housing, my
eyes are open to the challenge. I am optimistic that we can reduce
homelessness, shorten experiences of homelessness and prevent
individuals and families from becoming homeless. We know what works;
we’ve tested strategies; we’ve done the research; we’ve seen the data,
and now we must scale and coordinate these interventions.

My vision for reaching these goals is not unique — I intend to build off
successful program models and system designs from communities that have
achieved significant progress. We do not need to reinvent the wheel but
rather bring together all that works into a local coordinated system to
align our shelter and housing resources.


        Solving the homeless problem

  *
    Jonathan Payne folds organizes his area while Marin Santi relaxes on
    her bed, in their sleeping quarters at the Navigation Center on
    Monday, March 7, 2016 in San Francisco, California.
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/editorials/article/A-homeless-plan-with-promise-and-political-buy-in-8220336.php>

    A homeless plan with promise and political buy-in
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/editorials/article/A-homeless-plan-with-promise-and-political-buy-in-8220336.php>

  *
    Mayor Ed Lee announces the creation of a new city department which
    will unify the multitude of homeless services under one umbrella,
    during a news conference at St. Anthony's in San Francisco, Calif.
    on Thursday, Dec. 3, 2015. The mayor hopes to bring 8,000 out of
    homelessness by the end of his mayoral term.
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/S-F-s-Lee-gets-support-advice-on-how-to-make-6674246.php>

    S.F.’s Lee gets support, advice on how to make homeless plan
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/S-F-s-Lee-gets-support-advice-on-how-to-make-6674246.php>


Moving to a truly integrated navigation system will involve re-examining
our entire organization to address homelessness. The cornerstone is the
use of system-wide priorities and data to match people in crisis with
the right housing intervention based on their needs. The pillars of an
integrated system include:

• Building on the success of the navigation center model.

• Creating a cross-departmental team to address encampments throughout
the city.

• Streamlining access and referral to services and housing.

• Ensuring that all people experiencing a housing crisis have fair and
equal access.

• Using standardized tools and practices.

• Incorporating a system-wide “housing-first” approach to all types of
programs.

• Prioritizing homeless assistance for those with the greatest needs.

• Using a common data system to track services and outcomes across the
system of care.

By revisioning our system and increasing investments in solutions, we
can move San Francisco toward an end to homelessness as we know it. We
know that we cannot prevent every housing crisis and that people will
continue to need our services for years, but it is our goal to develop a
system that has the capacity and responsiveness to provide a pathway to
housing for every person experiencing homelessness. When that system
exists, homelessness in San Francisco will be rare, brief and one-time.

It will take strong leadership to integrate our processes and
partnerships and achieve our goals. This leadership will be grounded in
compassion, common sense and courage. We must have the compassion to see
the humanity in one another and to treat every San Franciscan with
dignity. We must have the common sense to use data to guide our
decision-making and to think strategically about how and when to deploy
our resources. And we must have the courage to make hard decisions and
to balance compassion and common sense.

Mayor Ed Lee has demonstrated his leadership on this issue by making
tremendous commitments to reducing homelessness in San Francisco, and
has laid the groundwork for this new department to be successful.

The mayor proposed an addition general fund investment of $12.1 million
in the first year for expanding homeless services and housing
opportunities. If the proposed sales tax passes in November, then an
additional $50 million will be available for navigation centers,
supportive housing and rapid re-housing subsidies over the next two years.

Jeff Kositsky, director of the new Department of Homelessness and
Supportive Housing, sits in front of mural iin his old workplace, the
Hamilton Family Center, in San Francisco, California, on Wednesday, May
11, 2016. Photo: Connor Radnovich, The Chronicle
Photo: Connor Radnovich, The Chronicle

  *

    <javascript:hst_print();>
  *

    <#comments>
    27

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Jeff Kositsky, director of the new Department of Homelessness and
Supportive Housing, sits in front of mural iin his old workplace, the
Hamilton Family Center, in San Francisco, California, on Wednesday, May
11, 2016.
Jeff Kositsky, director of the new Department of Homelessness and...

I am often told that I will have to walk a fine line between compassion
and common sense, but I see it as a wide boulevard. Most San Franciscans
are in this middle ground and do not subscribe to the views of the
loudest voices that promote either draconian solutions that would deny
homeless people their dignity or to those who believe it is acceptable
for people to live on our streets without concern for the impact on our
neighborhoods. It is time for the silent majority to speak up and find
compassionate and commonsense solutions to one of San Francisco’s
biggest challenges.

The Department of Homelessness and Supportive Housing will not be
successful by its efforts alone. We need the support of elected
officials, service providers, advocates, residents and the media to have
the courage to focus on good public policy and not be distracted by
divisive politics or sensationalistic stories. We invite you to partner
with us and find solutions to this challenging, but solvable, problem.

//

/Jeff Kositsky is the director of the San Francisco Department of
Homelessness and Supportive Housing./

//

You must be signed in to comment

is currently signed inSign In

<javascript:void(0)> <javascript:void(0)>


 


          Sign in using

	

	

	

	


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Show password
Forgot password? <javascript:void(0)>
Keep me signed in


Don't have a profile?


            Don't have a subscription?

Sign up <javascript:void(0)> Subscribe

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


        Biz & Tech <http://www.sfchronicle.com/business/>

Ian Mackinlay registers his short term rental with the city at 1660
Mission St. in San Francisco, Calif. on Thursday, Oct. 13, 2016. Getting
Airbnb users to register with the city is required but it is often
difficult to get users to comply
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/business/article/Airbnb-under-the-gun-is-ready-to-cooperate-with-10612040.php>



    Airbnb, under the gun, is ready to cooperate with SF
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/business/article/Airbnb-under-the-gun-is-ready-to-cooperate-with-10612040.php>


        Food <http://www.sfchronicle.com/food/>

Glenview Elementary first graders Miracle Tarrant, (left) and Mi' Yani
Moore participate in the tabbouleh salad taste test given by the Oakland
Unified School District in support of the Good Food Purchasing Program
in Oakland, California as seen on Wednesday November 2, 2016. The two
said they liked the salad.
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/food/article/Fresh-approach-with-farm-to-school-meals-in-10612057.php>



    Fresh approach with farm-to-school meals in Oakland
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/food/article/Fresh-approach-with-farm-to-school-meals-in-10612057.php>


        Politics & policy
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/politics-policy/>

Donald Trump speaks during a campaign event at J.S. Dorton Arena in
Raleigh, N.C., on Nov. 7, before he won the presidential election. MUST
CREDIT: Washington Post photo by Jabin Botsford
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/politics/article/Tips-for-improving-political-future-after-10611078.php>



    Tips for improving political future after crushing defeat
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/politics/article/Tips-for-improving-political-future-after-10611078.php>


        Top 100 Restaurants
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/top-100-restaurants/>

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/top-100-restaurants/>


    Top 100 Restaurants 2016: Savor Bay Area's best
    <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/top-100-restaurants/>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/editorials/article/San-Francisco-voters-send-a-mixed-message-on-10614226.php>



      San Francisco voters send a mixed message on homelessness
      <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/editorials/article/San-Francisco-voters-send-a-mixed-message-on-10614226.php>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/saunders/article/Anti-Trumpers-leave-the-kids-alone-10614164.php>



      Anti-Trumpers, leave the kids alone
      <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/saunders/article/Anti-Trumpers-leave-the-kids-alone-10614164.php>


      Letters to the Editor, Nov. 15
      <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/letterstoeditor/article/Letters-to-the-Editor-Nov-15-10614117.php>


        Editorials

Load more in Section
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
Top <#container>

  *


          About

      o Our Company
        <http://www.hearst.com/newspapers/san-francisco-chronicle.php>
      o Ad Choices <http://www.aboutads.info/choices/>
      o Careers <http://www.sfchronicle.com/hr/>
      o Terms of Use <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/>
      o Advertising <http://marketing.sfgate.com/>
      o Privacy Policy <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy>
      o Your Privacy Rights
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy#your_rights>
      o Your California Privacy Rights
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/#caprivacyrights>

  *


          Contact

      o Customer Service <http://www.sfchronicle.com/customer_service>
      o Frequently Asked Questions <http://www.sfchronicle.com/faq>
      o Newsroom Contacts <http://www.sfchronicle.com/newsroom_contacts>

  *


          Connect

      o Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/sanfranciscochronicle>
      o Twitter <https://twitter.com/sfchronicle>
      o LinkedIn <https://www.linkedin.com/company/san-francisco-chronicle>
      o Google+ <https://plus.google.com/+sfgate/posts>
  *


          Connect

      o <https://www.facebook.com/sanfranciscochronicle>
      o <https://twitter.com/sfchronicle>
      o <https://www.linkedin.com/company/san-francisco-chronicle>
      o <https://plus.google.com/+sfgate/posts>

© 2016 Hearst Corporation


    The sign in service is not functioning right now.


    Please try again in a few minutes

If the issues continue, please contact our customer service at

Phone:

Email:


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Show password
Forgot password? <javascript:void(0)>
Keep me signed in


Don't have a profile?


            Don't have a subscription?

Sign up <javascript:void(0)> Subscribe

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a profile using


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password
Send me email offers

Already have a profile? Sign In <javascript:void(0)>

By clicking "Next" or signing in you confirm that you accept our Terms
and Conditions <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and have read
and understood our Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel <javascript:void(0)>


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

<javascript:void(0)>


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in

<javascript:void(0)>


          Hi,


          You are signed in

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>

Maintain your delivery address, payment details and place a vacation
hold in Subscriber Portal.

MANAGE SUBSCRIPTION

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/account/>

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>
SUBSCRIBE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>
SIGN OUT

<javascript:void(0)>


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our
Terms of Service <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy
Policy <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign In

Keep me signed in
Show password Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Paid Subscription Access Only

You are now signed in but you must have a San Francisco Chronicle
subscription to access any content.

Already have a subscription?

ACTIVATE

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfchronicle.com%2Fopinion%2Fopenforum%2Farticle%2FHow-SF-will-re-envision-integrate-its-8330631.php%3Ft%3Da6db874c06>


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          About Me

DISPLAY NAMEDisplay names must begin with an alpha-numeric character.
They can not contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor
may they contain obscenities.

This display name is already in use. Please enter a different display name.

You must enter a display name.

Display names must begin with an alpha-numeric character. They can not
contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor may they
contain obscenities.

EMAIL ADDRESSChanging this email address will also change the email
address associated with your subscription

You must enter an email address.

GENDERThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

BIRTH YEARThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

* are required fields


          SF Chronicle Subscription

You can manage your delivery address, payment details, delete your
account and more subscription details in the subscriber portal.

Manage Subscription

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/account/>


            Get it on all your devices


    Unlimited digital access with every subscription

SFChronicle.com | App for iPhone and iPad
e-edition (daily print replica) | Exclusive member experiences and discounts

SUBSCRIBE NOW AND SAVE!

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/> I have a subscription

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfchronicle.com%2Fopinion%2Fopenforum%2Farticle%2FHow-SF-will-re-envision-integrate-its-8330631.php%3Ft%3Da6db874c06>


          Password

EDIT

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.


          Password

CANCEL

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.

CURRENT PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Current password is incorrect

Current password field is required

NEW PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain both
upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

New password field is required

CONFIRM PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Confirm password field is required

Show password


    Welcome, !

Your profile, subscription, linked accounts, and newsletter selections
are not viewable by other readers on our sites. Your profile can only be
seen by you. Any comments you post to articles on our sites can be seen
by all readers and moderators.


          Newsletter Preferences

You are subscribed to the following:

  * Top O’ the Bay

    The latest stories from across the San Francisco Bay Area

  * Notes & Errata

    Mark Morford's irreverent and highly satiric weekly column

  * Breaking News

    Be notified when when big stories break or critical warnings are
    issued for the Bay Area

  * Sports

    Coverage of all your Bay Area teams

  * Inside Scoop

    Insider knowledge for Bay Area foodies

  * New Flicks

    The latest movie reviews

  * Business & Technology

    The latest in business, finance, and tech news

  * 5 Things To Do

    Great events across the Bay Area selected just for you


          San Francisco Chronicle Newsletters

  * Chronicle Commuter

    A curated selection of stories just in time for your afternoon commute

  * Membership Updates

    The latest from our membership benefits program (subscribers only)

  * e-edition Reminder

    Reminder of your daily e-edition, a replica of the print newspaper
    (subscribers only)

  * Subscription Reminders

    Notices and reminders about your subscription (subscribers only)


          Email Notifications and Offers

  * Feature Updates

    Special features, new site sections and more from The Chronicle and
    SFGATE

  * Promotions & Sales

    Subscription offers from the San Francisco Chronicle and other
    special promotions

  * Surveys

    Surveys about your Chronicle print edition, websites and other
    digital products

  * Advertiser Special Offers

    Receive special offers sent by us on behalf of select advertisers
    and partners

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in Forgot Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

You must be a subscriber to access this content.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

Stay signed in
Forgot Your Password?


          Sign In

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Back to Sign In

Email address field is required.

Email address is incorrect.

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


          Link Profiles

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot Your Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Forgot Your Password?


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Link Profiles

Stay signed in

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Forgot Your Password?


          SIGN IN


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot Your Password?
Keep me signed in


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Sign In With Your Existing San Francisco Chronicle Account
Sign In
OR

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Show password
Keep me signed in
Forgot Your Password?

By signing in, you agree to our terms of use
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/>.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password?

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in
Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot password?

Create an account

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a sign-in for your subscription account


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password

Have a profile on SFGate or San Francisco Chronicle already?

Sign In

Contact Customer Service at 800-310-2455 or email us at
homedelivery@sfchronicle.com <mailto:homedelivery@sfchronicle.com>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in

