SF Homeless Project
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=logo-lo_c9c5f5ebb63f---6286c006a24b>
Follow
<https://twitter.com/bayareahomeless><https://facebook.com/sfhomelessproject>
Sign in / Sign up
<https://medium.com/m/signin?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fsfhomelessproject.com%2Fhow-do-you-solve-a-problem-like-san-francisco-58d7238273d%3Fsource%3Duser_profile---------1->
Next story


        Join Our Digital Town Hall Meeting

<https://medium.com/town-hall/join-our-digital-town-hall-meeting-2a6ac2cced64?source=read_next_metabar----------40>
54
3

  * Share
  *
    54

  *
*

Go to the profile of SF Homeless Project

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@sfhp?source=post_header_lockup>
SF Homeless Project
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@sfhp?source=post_header_lockup>BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
70+ media organizations dedicated to covering the causes and solutions
to homelessness in the San Francisco Bay Area.
Jun 29


Homelessness in San Francisco is a problem 35 years in the making
<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/video/category/news-local-news/3421791-sfs-homeless-problem-how-did-we-get-here/>—but
despite a yearly budget of $241m
<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/06/27/despite-241-million-budget-sf-still-struggles-with-homelessness/>
to deal with it, the city seems unable to change the situation for the
thousands of people on the streets
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/numbers/>. The big question
is “why?”
<http://48hills.org/2016/06/27/why-are-so-many-people-homeless-in-sf/>
but you’ve probably got a lot of other questions, too
<http://www.sfgate.com/news/article/Questions-about-San-Francisco-s-homeless-answered-8323297.php>.

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/to-the-city-and-people-of-san-francisco-484764406408>

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/to-have-and-have-not-the-early-days-of-bay-area-homelessness-fc1463c256f8>

So what might be the solutions? On the ground, outreach workers try to
make a difference
<http://kalw.org/post/one-night-sf-homeless-outreach-team#stream/0>, and
there are programs to help people get back on their feet. Maybe it’s a
job selling newspapers
<https://calmatters.org/articles/at-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty/> or
helping <https://medium.com/p/48aa5391f3d5/> clean the streets or maybe
it’s just getting out there and hustling recyclables
<http://www.theatlantic.com/video/index/483623/the-controversial-business-of-recycling-hustling-in-west-oakland/>.
Perhaps it’s local businesses stepping in to put pressure in the right
places
<http://www.bizjournals.com/sanfrancisco/news/2016/06/29/s-f-homeless-project-business.html>
or the big tech companies paying more tax
<http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/sf-proposed-ballot-measure-to-tax-large-tech-companies-to-fund-homeless/>.
Or maybe it’s letting the cops get rid of tents
<http://missionlocal.org/2016/06/san-francisco-homeless-respond-to-tent-ban/>.
The media is convening
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/to-the-city-and-people-of-san-francisco-484764406408>
to explore the possibilities, but even that coverage can be a minefield
<http://sfpublicpress.org/news/2016-06/how-media-coverage-on-homelessness-falls-short-and-what-reporters-can-do-about-it>.

<http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2016/06/27/despite-241-million-budget-sf-still-struggles-with-homelessness/>

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@storiesbehindthefog>

And plenty of people point to the region’s housing crisis as the biggest
contributor. California’s planning to spend $2bn on building affordable
housing everywhere from LA to Sonoma
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/5772529-181/pushed-from-hidden-encampments-plight?artslide=0>.
Can San Francisco build more homes? How fast? In San Jose, they’re
turning RVs into affordable housing
<http://www.ktvu.com/news/homeless/166597415-story>. It’s never fast
enough. The mayor’s just installed a new ‘homelessness tsar’—but the
jury’s out on whether he even has enough latitude to succeed
<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/story/the-mayor-of-tent-city>.
This is a situation that developed over the course of decades, and it
won’t be solved in a day, or a week, or even a year
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/28/homelessness_language_and_coverage.php>.

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/the-mayor-of-tent-city-204a4b3477f8#.tavzw8ljo>

<http://sfist.com/2016/06/28/homelessness_language_and_coverage.php>

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/supportive-housing/>

<http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/sf-proposed-ballot-measure-to-tax-large-tech-companies-to-fund-homeless/>

<https://timeline.com/how-americas-homeless-went-from-mobile-work-force-to-urban-blight-ae9d2acb159f#.p94jcn37b>

In the meantime? Life on the streets is hella tough
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/experience-life-on-the-streets-of-san-francisco-360-video>.
The numbers aren’t going down. The human
<https://medium.com/p/ce7719e7d788/> stories are often tragic. And for
now, the city where so much of the world’s future is designed seems
unable—or perhaps unprepared—to shake off its difficult past.

<http://instagram.com/youthradio>

<http://fusion.net/story/317655/section-8-vouchers-homelessness/>

<https://www.buzzfeed.com/jessicamisener/can-you-find-a-place-to-sleep-tonight?utm_term=.yt48dvWW5#.ix8yMaxxJ>

<http://www.sfexaminer.com/happens-sf-takes-homeless-peoples-stuff/>

Housing <https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/housing?source=post>San
Francisco
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/san-francisco?source=post>SFHomelessProject
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/sfhomelessproject?source=post>Social
Justice <https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/social-justice?source=post>
54
3
#
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Go to the profile of SF Homeless Project

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@sfhp?source=footer_card>


      SF Homeless Project <https://sfhomelessproject.com/@sfhp>

70+ media organizations dedicated to covering the causes and solutions
to homelessness in the San Francisco Bay Area.

#
Follow
SF Homeless Project

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=footer_card>


      SF Homeless Project
      <https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=footer_card>

70 publishers, one focus.

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/homelessness-youve-got-questions-we-ve-got-answers-c18035076e5f?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
More from SF Homeless Project
Homelessness: You’ve Got Questions, We’ve Got Answers

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/homelessness-youve-got-questions-we-ve-got-answers-c18035076e5f?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
Go to the profile of KQED

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@kqed>
KQED
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@kqed?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
46
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/they-really-messed-up-a-lot-of-people-you-know-75d2d6cd4275?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-41>
More from SF Homeless Project
“They Really Messed Up a Lot of People, You Know?”

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/they-really-messed-up-a-lot-of-people-you-know-75d2d6cd4275?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-41>
Go to the profile of Darcel Jackson

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@DarcelJackson>
Darcel Jackson
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@DarcelJackson?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-41>
175
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/the-crisis-within-the-crisis-more-senior-women-are-homeless-and-their-needs-are-ignored-5c21673d62c1?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-45>
More on Social Justice from SF Homeless Project
The Crisis Within the Crisis: More Senior Women are Homeless, and Their
Needs are Ignored

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/the-crisis-within-the-crisis-more-senior-women-are-homeless-and-their-needs-are-ignored-5c21673d62c1?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-45>
Go to the profile of Wear Your Voice Magazine

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@WearYourVoice>
Wear Your Voice Magazine
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@WearYourVoice?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-45>
3
Responses
Write a response…
Unknown user
No responses yet
Show all responses

×

Don’t miss SF Homeless Project’s next story
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
SF Homeless ProjectSF Homeless Project
