  * English

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/>
  * Spanish

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/es/>

El Tecolote

<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/>
//

  * Home

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/>
  * News

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/>
      o Education

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/education/>
      o Immigration

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/immigration-news/>
      o Housing

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/housing-news/>
      o Health

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/health-news/>
  * Arts & Culture

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/>
      o Film and Literary Reviews

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/film-and-literary-reviews/>
      o People in the Arts

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/people-in-the-arts/>
      o Event Coverage

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/event-coverage/>
  * Features

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/features/>
  * Community

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/community-2/>
  * Latin America

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/latin_america/>
  * Commentary

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/>
      o Immigration 101

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/immigration-101/>
      o Veterans’ Voices

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/veterans-voices-commentary/>
      o Letters

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/letters/>
      o Opinion

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/opinion-en/>
  * About

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/about-2/>
      o Archive

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/print-issue-archive/>
      o Volunteer

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/about-2/volunteer/>
      o Acción Latina

        <http://accionlatina.org/>
  * Advertise

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/advertise-2/>
  * Contact

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/contact/>


  Huckleberry Youth Programs: A safe space for at-risk youth

// June 29, 2016 // Adrian Pintor
Share this: Facebook <#> Twitter <#> Google+ <#> Pinterest <#> Email to
a Friend <#>
The common living area at Huckleberry House. Photo courtesy of
Huckleberry HouseThe common living area at Huckleberry House. Photo
courtesy of Huckleberry House

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Huckleberry-House_03web.jpg>
A Huckleberry staff member (at right) provides support to a young man in
need. Photo Kevin Meynell/courtesy: Huckleberry HouseA Huckleberry staff
member (at right) provides support to a young man in need. Photo Kevin
Meynell/courtesy: Huckleberry House

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Huckleberry-House_01web.jpg>
Front view of Huckleberry House. Photo courtesy of Huckleberry
HouseFront view of Huckleberry House. Photo courtesy of Huckleberry House

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Huckleberry-House_02web_box.jpg>
The common living area at Huckleberry House. Photo courtesy of
Huckleberry HouseThe common living area at Huckleberry House. Photo
courtesy of Huckleberry House

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Huckleberry-House_03web.jpg>
A Huckleberry staff member (at right) provides support to a young man in
need. Photo Kevin Meynell/courtesy: Huckleberry HouseA Huckleberry staff
member (at right) provides support to a young man in need. Photo Kevin
Meynell/courtesy: Huckleberry House

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Huckleberry-House_01web.jpg>

On the corner of Lyon and Page Street in San Francisco’s Haight-Ashbury
district sits the Huckleberry House, an oasis for runaway and homeless
youth. The baby blue and brick chimney Victorian-style home is open 24
hours a day, offering shelter seven days a week.

“We believe that every youth deserves an opportunity to reach their
potential and provide a wide variety of services that can help make that
happen,” said Douglas Styles, the executive director of Huckleberry
Youth Programs.

According to the 2015 San Francisco Point-In-Time Homeless survey, the
city’s combined street and shelter population was 7,539, which included
853 youths. About 3,200 of San Francisco’s homeless population are
sheltered and the rest are on the street, according to the survey.

The Huckleberry House has been providing housing services since 1967 and
offers continuous 24-hour crisis intervention and resolution and
emergency shelter to high need youth ages 11-17.

“In San Francisco, we have one of the greatest economic divides between
the rich and the poor,” said San Francisco Public Defender Jeff Adachi
during an April 21 New America Media press conference. “Twelve percent
of our population is below the federal poverty level. We have over 3,000
homeless children in our public school system.”

According to a 2015 report by the Coalition on Homelessness, about 40
percent of San Francisco’s homeless population are members of homeless
families, and 2,352 homeless students are enrolled in San Francisco
Unified School District, a number that a decade ago was 844 in 2005.

The house provides free utilities, such as showers, washers and dryers,
as well as hot meals. The guests also have access to family counselors
who can talk to them about their problems and help them find solutions.

Housing is one of the many services Huckleberry provides; it also helps
immigrant families resolve problems, such as neglected children who have
been left in their home countries by their parents. It also provides
support for commercially sexually exploited youth, health care and
health education, counseling, career training and college access.

“Our program is really focused on both family reunification and family
strengthening,” said Katie Reisinger, the program director for
Huckleberry House. “We want to make sure the families are talking about
what are the problems and making sure the whole family has connection
with our therapy services.”

The home, which is two stories and has six bedrooms, allows for a
maximum stay of three weeks, but the average time stayed is two to three
days. The house serves 200 to 300 guests a year, according to Styles.

“The main goal is for the guest to stay a short amount of time, so that
they can get back home as soon as possible,” said Styles. “The average
stay is two to three days and we do have people who stay several weeks,
but it’s really meant for a short stay, so they can stabilize and return
back home.”

According to the Huckleberry House, 93 percent of youth that utilize its
services are returned home or relocated to safe housing.

“When you break it down our motive is to support the youth and make sure
they reach their fullest potential,” Reisinger said.

Huckleberry also provides services in delinquency prevention.

Huckleberry’s Community Assessment Resource Center (CARC) serves as an
alternative option for youth who have been arrested, for both felony and
misdemeanors, according to Styles.

The program is done through a collaboration of juvenile probation staff,
public health officials, police department and community-based
organizations.

The arrested youths are first brought to Huckleberry’s CARC by police
officials and then meet with probation officers for intake, a licensed
psychology technician to identify any physical or mental health crisis
and a case manager, who conducts a voluntary assessment.

“We want to keep youth out of jail as much as possible,” Styles said.
“The main goal is to build structure back in their life, so they’re not
out committing crimes and getting arrested. Whatever it takes to happen,
we are there.”

Coalition on Homelessness
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/coalition-on-homelessness/>
Community Assessment Resource Center
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/community-assessment-resource-center/>
Douglas Styles <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/douglas-styles/>
Haight-Ashbury district
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/haight-ashbury-district/> homeless
youth <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/homeless-youth/> Huckleberry
House <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/huckleberry-house/> Jeff
Adachi <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/jeff-adachi-en/> Katie
Reisinger <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/katie-reisinger/> san
francisco <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/san-francisco-en/> San
Francisco Point-In-Time Homeless
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/san-francisco-point-in-time-homeless/>
SF Homeless Project
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/sf-homeless-project/>

Previous Post


      Con Orlando <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/features/con-orlando/>

Next Post


      Pilot program for homeless sees some success
      <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/features/pilot-program-for-homeless-sees-some-success/>

Latest Print Issue
Powered by <https://issuu.com/explore>
Publish for Free <https://issuu.com/publishers?entryPoint=embed>
El Tecolote on Youtube
Recent Posts
cf6_kkk-bold-eagle_01_web
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/election-cartoons/>	


    Election Cartoons
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/election-cartoons/>

// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/election-cartoons/#respond>
A detention center in Arizona. Photo: Steve Pavey
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/opinion-en/there-are-no-borders-that-can-contain-the-cry-of-justice/>



    There are no borders that can contain the cry of...
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/opinion-en/there-are-no-borders-that-can-contain-the-cry-of-justice/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/opinion-en/there-are-no-borders-that-can-contain-the-cry-of-justice/#respond>

A stencil disparaging tech workers on a 24th Street sidewalk. Photo:
Mabel Jiménez
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/letters/letter-to-the-editor-techie-hate/>



    Letter to the editor: Techie hate
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/letters/letter-to-the-editor-techie-hate/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/letters/letter-to-the-editor-techie-hate/#respond>

Photo: Ekevara Kitpowsong
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/arts_culture/my-people-love-is-stronger-than-hate/>



    My people: Love is stronger than hate
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/arts_culture/my-people-love-is-stronger-than-hate/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/arts_culture/my-people-love-is-stronger-than-hate/#respond>

Prop 58 passed, allowing bilingual education in California schools. El
Tecolote Archives/Photo: Marina Forte
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/news/ballot-measure-results-show-ca-is-well-left-of-nation/>



    Ballot measure results show CA is well left of...
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/news/ballot-measure-results-show-ca-is-well-left-of-nation/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/news/ballot-measure-results-show-ca-is-well-left-of-nation/#respond>

Voter Guide


      About

El Tecolote newspaper began as a project in a La Raza Studies class at
San Francisco State University. Prof. Juan Gonzales created the class as
a way to channel more Latinos into journalism. In the 1970s, Latinos and
other people of color were virtually invisible in the major newsrooms.

Today El Tecolote continues to provide original local news, portraying
the diverse spectrum of Latino life.


      //Twitter

  * //RT @AccionLatinaSF <http://twitter.com/AccionLatinaSF>: Our Juan
    R. Fuentes Gallery turns 1 next month and to celebrate/fundraise we
    are hosting a special art auction with som…
    November 29th, 2016
  * //Encuentro del Canto Popular 30th Anniversary! • Dec. 11 • 7pm
    #encuentro <http://twitter.com/search?q=encuentro> @AccionLatinaSF
    <http://twitter.com/AccionLatinaSF> https://t.co/QWugKbgTKM	
    November 23rd, 2016

Copyright (c) 2016. All rights reserved.
Published by Acción Latina <http://www.accionlatina.org/>	

<#>
