  * Home

    <http://goldengatexpress.org/>
  *

    <#mm-0>About

    <http://goldengatexpress.org/home/about-2/>
  * News

    <http://goldengatexpress.org/section/news/>
  * Multimedia

    <http://goldengatexpress.org/section/multimedia-2/>
  * Lifestyle & Culture

    <http://goldengatexpress.org/section/entertainment/>
  * Sports

    <http://goldengatexpress.org/section/sports/>
  * Opinion

    <http://goldengatexpress.org/section/op-ed/>

  * About

    <#menu-nav_2015-1>
  * Contact

    <http://goldengatexpress.org/home/about-2/contact/>
  * Advertise

    <http://goldengatexpress.org/advertising/>

// <https://www.facebook.com/GoXpress>//
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/goldengatexpress/>//
<http://www.ustream.tv/channel/xpress-news>//
<https://plus.google.com/114160008112316286737/>//
<http://www.goldengatexpress.org/feed/>// <https://twitter.com/xpressnews>	
Golden Gate Xpress <http://goldengatexpress.org/>
<https://www.applyweb.com/public/contribute?s=sfudonat>
<http://californiaparking.com/resume-submission.shtml>
<https://www.usfca.edu/request/open-house?&utm_campaign=sem-grad-info-evening-nov-2016&utm_medium=display&utm_source=golden-gate-xpress&utm_content=grad-info>
<https://cel.sfsu.edu/winter/register?utm_source=ggxpress&utm_medium=newsbanner&utm_campaign=wint17&utm_content=reg>
<http://www.goldengatexpress.org/advertising/>

  * Home

    <http://goldengatexpress.org/>
  * About

    <http://goldengatexpress.org/home/about-2/>
      o Contact

        <http://goldengatexpress.org/home/about-2/contact/>
      o Advertise

        <http://goldengatexpress.org/advertising/>
  * News

    <http://goldengatexpress.org/section/news/>
      o
        Approximately 5,000 people gathered on Alcatraz Island to
        celebrate the sunrise during the annual Indigenous Peoples
        Sunrise Ceremony on Thursday, Nov. 24, 2016. (George
        Morin/Xpress)	//	

        <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/26/waiting-on-the-sun/>
        26 Nov 2016


              Waiting on the sun
              <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/26/waiting-on-the-sun/>

        SF State political science major Pat Racello speaks to the
        students through a megaphone about the 5 percent tuition
        increase in Malcolm X Plaza on Tuesday, Nov. 15, 2016.	

        <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/15/students-rally-against-proposed-tuition-increase/>

        15 Nov 2016


              Students Rally against proposed tuition increase
              <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/15/students-rally-against-proposed-tuition-increase/>


        img_1884	

        <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/14/racial-tensions-rise-at-sf-state-post-election/>

        14 Nov 2016


              Racial Tensions Rise at SF State Post Election
              <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/14/racial-tensions-rise-at-sf-state-post-election/>


  * Multimedia

    <http://goldengatexpress.org/section/multimedia-2/>
      o
        screen-shot-2016-11-29-at-6-03-26-pm	//	

        <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/29/sf-state-hosts-post-election-community-forum/>

        29 Nov 2016


              SF State hosts post-election Community Forum
              <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/29/sf-state-hosts-post-election-community-forum/>


        Approximately 5,000 people gathered on Alcatraz Island to
        celebrate the sunrise during the annual Indigenous Peoples
        Sunrise Ceremony on Thursday, Nov. 24, 2016. (George
        Morin/Xpress)	//	

        <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/26/waiting-on-the-sun/>
        26 Nov 2016


              Waiting on the sun
              <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/26/waiting-on-the-sun/>

        Students join other protesters at Market and Powell street to
        speak out against Trump, November 9, 2016.	

        <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/12/sf-state-students-protest-trump/>

        12 Nov 2016


              SF State students protest Trump
              <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/12/sf-state-students-protest-trump/>


  * Lifestyle & Culture

    <http://goldengatexpress.org/section/entertainment/>
      o
        Shoppers converge at Stonestown Galleria during Black Friday on
        Nov. 25, 2016. Some SF State students were unable to spend time
        with their family during Thanksgiving, because they had to work
        early hours at Stonestown for Black Friday sales. (Steven
        Ho/Xpress)	

        <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/25/black-friday-cuts-into-family-time-for-working-students/>

        25 Nov 2016


              Black Friday cuts into family time for working students
              <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/25/black-friday-cuts-into-family-time-for-working-students/>


        saldana_poetry_002	

        <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/15/speak-prepares-for-national-slam-poetry-competition/>

        15 Nov 2016


              SPEAK prepares for national slam poetry competition
              <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/15/speak-prepares-for-national-slam-poetry-competition/>


        Billy X Jennings from the archive of Black Panther Party speaks
        to students and faculty at the Revolution Times: Underground
        Press of the '60s and '70s at the Design Gallery on Thursday,
        Nov. 3, 2016. The exhibition showcased the graphic design of the
        1960s and 1970s radical newspapers. (Perng-chih Huang/Xpress)	

        <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/11/design-gallery-displays-collection-of-revolutionary-newspapers/>

        11 Nov 2016


              Design Gallery displays collection of revolutionary
              newspapers
              <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/11/design-gallery-displays-collection-of-revolutionary-newspapers/>


  * Sports

    <http://goldengatexpress.org/section/sports/>
      o
        SF State Gators' junior guard Imani Smith (24) makes a lay up
        over Warriors' sophomore center Emilee VanDyke (33) after a fast
        break during the Gators' 60-52 win over William Jessup
        University at The Swamp on Tuesday, Nov. 22, 2016.	

        <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/23/gators-hold-off-warriors-late-rally-to-secure-victory/>

        23 Nov 2016


              Gators hold off Warriors’ late rally to secure victory
              <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/23/gators-hold-off-warriors-late-rally-to-secure-victory/>


        SF State Gators’ junior guard Toni Edwards (2) drives the ball
        down the court against Hawks’ senior guard Tiana Burks (0)
        during the Gators 66-58 win over Holy Names University at the
        Swamp on Tuesday, Nov. 15, 2016. (Connor Hunt/Xpress)	

        <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/16/gators-aggressive-second-half-propels-them-for-first-win-of-season/>

        16 Nov 2016


              Gators’ aggressive second half propels them for first win
              of season
              <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/16/gators-aggressive-second-half-propels-them-for-first-win-of-season/>


        SF State Gators goalkeeper Arianna Wesley (bottom right) kneels
        during the playing of the national anthem before a game against
        Cal State San Marcos at Cox Stadium on Sunday, Oct. 9.	

        <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/16/gators-keeper-kneels-in-solidarity/>

        16 Nov 2016


              Gators keeper kneels in solidarity
              <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/16/gators-keeper-kneels-in-solidarity/>


  * Opinion

    <http://goldengatexpress.org/section/op-ed/>
  * Golden Gate Xpress <http://goldengatexpress.org/>
  * //

    //

  * 16 Nov 2016 Five soccer players receive All-Conference honors
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/16/five-soccer-players-receive-all-conference-honors/>

  * 16 Nov 2016 Gators’ aggressive second half propels them for first
    win of season
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/16/gators-aggressive-second-half-propels-them-for-first-win-of-season/>

  * 16 Nov 2016 Gators keeper kneels in solidarity
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/16/gators-keeper-kneels-in-solidarity/>

  * 16 Nov 2016 IDEAS discusses undocumented student safety
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/16/ideas-discusses-undocumented-student-safety/>

  * 26 Nov 2016 Waiting on the sun
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/26/waiting-on-the-sun/>	
  * 25 Nov 2016 Faculty accuse SF State of breaching contracts
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/25/faculty-accuse-sf-state-of-breaching-contracts/>

  * 25 Nov 2016 Black Friday cuts into family time for working students
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/25/black-friday-cuts-into-family-time-for-working-students/>

  * 23 Nov 2016 Gators hold off Warriors’ late rally to secure victory
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/23/gators-hold-off-warriors-late-rally-to-secure-victory/>

  * 16 Nov 2016 Five soccer players receive All-Conference honors
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/16/five-soccer-players-receive-all-conference-honors/>

  * 16 Nov 2016 Gators’ aggressive second half propels them for first
    win of season
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/16/gators-aggressive-second-half-propels-them-for-first-win-of-season/>

  * 16 Nov 2016 Gators keeper kneels in solidarity
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/16/gators-keeper-kneels-in-solidarity/>

  * 16 Nov 2016 IDEAS discusses undocumented student safety
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/16/ideas-discusses-undocumented-student-safety/>

  * 26 Nov 2016 Waiting on the sun
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/26/waiting-on-the-sun/>	
  * 25 Nov 2016 Faculty accuse SF State of breaching contracts
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/25/faculty-accuse-sf-state-of-breaching-contracts/>

  * 25 Nov 2016 Black Friday cuts into family time for working students
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/25/black-friday-cuts-into-family-time-for-working-students/>

  * 23 Nov 2016 Gators hold off Warriors’ late rally to secure victory
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/11/23/gators-hold-off-warriors-late-rally-to-secure-victory/>


//

//

// "I think actually the whole time we felt unsafe," said student
Cristina Navarro on her time spent without housing while going to school
at SF State.
News

<http://goldengatexpress.org/section/news/>


  Improvements planned for “abysmally low” University support of
  homeless students

29 Jun 2016 Kelsey Lannin
<http://goldengatexpress.org/author/kelseylannin/> Kelsey Lannin
<http://goldengatexpress.org/author/kelseylannin/>
// 0 <#comment> //7 <#> // 13.2k // 0 <#vw-post-shares-dialog>

SF State administrators are in the early stages of plans to improve
support for homeless and food insecure students.

Over the past year, administration has worked with the Associated
Students Inc. on improving food support, and now will focus on
centralizing resources for students, said Dean of Students Mary
Ann Begley. Begley said because there has never been a centralized
resource with a dedicated staff, it’s difficult to connect with students
in need and to learn about trends, issues and concerns.

“We’re in the infancy stages of trying to get our program up and going,”
Begley said. “This is absolutely necessary. It really is. And I’m glad
to be part of it.

A California State University survey
<https://www.calstate.edu/AcadAff/documents/ServingDisplacedandFoodInsecureStudetnsintheCSUJanuary20163.8.16.pdf>
released in February reported that roughly 8 percent of students
experienced homelessness in 2015. Of the 23 schools surveyed, SF State’s
support offerings for housing and food insecure students fell below average.

The options provided by SF State's to support students with housing and
food instability were less than the average CSU in the study. Kelsey
Lannin <http://goldengatexpress.org/author/kelseylannin/> / Xpress

The options provided by SF State’s to support students with housing and
food instability were less than the average CSU in the study.

Tony Sparks, an assistant professor and homelessness researcher at SF
State was homeless for about six months as a student at the University
in the mid 90s. He sees homelessness as an endemic hardship at the
University and routinely meets students in his classes who divulge their
homeless status.

“SF State’s response in terms of the rest of the CSU’s is abysmally
low,” Sparks said. “It was one of those things where when the report
came out, a lot of us went well yeah duh why haven’t we done this before?”

Parks and tourism major Cristina Navarro, a junior at SF State, said she
found no resources available to her when she lost her housing in 2014.
The help she received from the school amounted to advice from a school
psychologist to find a shelter. Now a junior, she looks back on her time
without housing as a grim “right of passage.”

“I never thought I would be homeless,” Navarro said. “I know a lot of
people who have been homeless as students and it’s really unfortunate…
If they want to come here to study they should be able to find a place
to live.”

SF State’s existing support for housing insecure students boils down to
two limited offerings. The first is the HOPE Fund, an interest-free loan
of typically $1,000 to $3,000 that students in crisis can apply for. In
the fund’s first year, loans have been given to six students of the 13
who have applied. The second offering is temporary placement in
University housing when space is available, which is very rare. Begley
estimates that under five students have been housed this way in 2016.

SF State offers two main support options for students in need, but that
support is very limited. Kelsey Lannin
<http://goldengatexpress.org/author/kelseylannin/> / Xpress

SF State offers two main support options for students in need, but that
support is very limited.

“We obviously are not a social services entity, so we do have to factor
that in,” Begley said. “We will do as much as we possibly can to assist
students and to refer them and to make sure that they get the types of
help that they need to reduce barriers to a degree. But it can’t all be
put on an institution of higher education because this is a much larger
systemic problem within our society. It’s not just a University problem.”

Sparks said that the University could leverage other existing resources
like laundry facilities and lockers to alleviate the burdens that come
with not having a permanent home.

“If you think about it, not having a place to stay isn’t really about a
place to sleep,” Sparks said. “Sleeping is one thing. But you also need
a place that you can work stably, a place that you can take a shower, a
place that you can change and wash your clothes, a place that you can
get food.”

While not created specifically for displaced students, a pilot food
program is slated to roll out in the fall. Fueled by a $9,000 donation
from the campus bookstore that’s operated by Follett Bookstore
Management, the program aims to distribute several pounds of fresh
fruits and vegetables from the ASI-run farmers market to students in
need every week.

“The best thing we can do is martial resources that we already have,”
said Sparks. “It wouldn’t be really hard to just get the people who are
in charge of these things into a room and say ‘listen, what could you do?’”

 

Additional reporting by Avery Peterson.

Watch: Golden Gate Xpress speaks with three people who faced housing
insecurity during their time as college students.

 


Share this:

  * Email
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/06/29/improvements-planned-for-abysmally-low-university-support-of-homeless-students/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Facebook16
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/06/29/improvements-planned-for-abysmally-low-university-support-of-homeless-students/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Twitter
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/06/29/improvements-planned-for-abysmally-low-university-support-of-homeless-students/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Google
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/06/29/improvements-planned-for-abysmally-low-university-support-of-homeless-students/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * More <#>
*

  * Reddit
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/06/29/improvements-planned-for-abysmally-low-university-support-of-homeless-students/?share=reddit&nb=1>
  * Tumblr
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/06/29/improvements-planned-for-abysmally-low-university-support-of-homeless-students/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  *
  * Pinterest
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/06/29/improvements-planned-for-abysmally-low-university-support-of-homeless-students/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * LinkedIn
    <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/06/29/improvements-planned-for-abysmally-low-university-support-of-homeless-students/?share=linkedin&nb=1>
  *
*

Previous post


        Man shot near SF State campus

<http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/06/18/man-shot-near-sf-state-campus/>
thumb2
Next post


        SF State students share their experiences with homelessness

<http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/07/20/sf-state-college-students-share-their-experiences-with-homelessness/>



      No Comment


      Leave a reply Cancel reply
      <http://goldengatexpress.org/2016/06/29/improvements-planned-for-abysmally-low-university-support-of-homeless-students/#respond>

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

Notify me of new posts by email.

© 2016 Golden Gate Xpress, All Rights Reserved.
// <https://www.facebook.com/GoXpress>//
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/goldengatexpress/>//
<http://www.ustream.tv/channel/xpress-news>//
<https://plus.google.com/114160008112316286737/>//
<http://www.goldengatexpress.org/feed/>// <https://twitter.com/xpressnews>	

SHARE


  Improvements planned for “abysmally low” University support of
  homeless students

//
<http://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fgoldengatexpress.org%2F2016%2F06%2F29%2Fimprovements-planned-for-abysmally-low-university-support-of-homeless-students%2F>
//
<http://twitter.com/home?status=Improvements+planned+for+%26%238220%3Babysmally+low%26%238221%3B+University+support+of+homeless+students%20-%20http%3A%2F%2Fgoldengatexpress.org%2F2016%2F06%2F29%2Fimprovements-planned-for-abysmally-low-university-support-of-homeless-students%2F>
//
<http://pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fgoldengatexpress.org%2F2016%2F06%2F29%2Fimprovements-planned-for-abysmally-low-university-support-of-homeless-students%2F&media=https://i2.wp.com/goldengatexpress.org/home/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Cristina-Navarro.jpg?fit=751%2C417&description=Improvements+planned+for+%26%238220%3Babysmally+low%26%238221%3B+University+support+of+homeless+students>
//
<http://plus.google.com/share?url=http%3A%2F%2Fgoldengatexpress.org%2F2016%2F06%2F29%2Fimprovements-planned-for-abysmally-low-university-support-of-homeless-students%2F>

Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

:)
