KQED Menu

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Menu

    <#>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs & Blogs

        <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Special Coverage

        <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs <#> Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California


  KQED News <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

Search

<#search-container>


  KQED News Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Search for:

News Fix <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>


  In Contra Costa, One Man’s Homeless Outreach Mission Comes to an End

Doug Stewart and fellow outreach worker Mike Callanan on a recent
late-night shift.

Doug Stewart and fellow outreach worker Mike Callanan on a recent
late-night shift. (/Adam Grossberg/KQED/)

By Devin Katayama <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/dkatayama/> and Adam
Grossberg <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/agrossberg/>
June 29, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/original-homelessness-shifts-to-eastern-contra-costa-county/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/original-homelessness-shifts-to-eastern-contra-costa-county/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/original-homelessness-shifts-to-eastern-contra-costa-county/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/original-homelessness-shifts-to-eastern-contra-costa-county/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/original-homelessness-shifts-to-eastern-contra-costa-county/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/original-homelessness-shifts-to-eastern-contra-costa-county/?share=email&nb=1>
*

F
or the past dozen years or so, Doug Stewart has spent most of his nights
in places most people would never choose to go. He treks through urban
woodlands and along dark and dangerous train tracks in Contra Costa
County, seeking the out-of-the-way places where those with no permanent
shelter are camped out.

Stewart wears a bulletproof vest and, at first glance, looks like a cop.
But most people he approaches seem to like him. That’s because they know
who he is and what he’s about.

“You can talk to them for five or 10 minutes,” Stewart says of the
people he encounters. “No one else has talked to them all day, and you
can talk to ’em for five or 10 minutes, make them feel like they’re
worth talking to still. That’s part of providing them services.”

 

Stewart took on this mission more than a decade ago. He started by
handing out hot dogs to homeless folks in the community of Pacheco, next
door to Concord, where he sat on a municipal advisory council.

‘This takes a little chunk out of you every night. You cannot
continually go out every night and see despair and sadness and be OK. It
doesn’t work like that.’
Doug Stewart,
Contra Costa Homeless Outreach

“It just seemed like every meeting we were talking about homelessness,”
Stewart says. “What I really found out is that after about 4:30 in the
afternoon. there was nothing for ’em.”

For the past five years, Stewart has run Contra Costa Homeless Outreach,
an agency he created to distribute all sorts of aid to people living on
the streets.

“You can’t just offer homeless services eight hours a day,” he says.
“Homelessness is not an eight-hour-a-day operation. It’s important to be
out here 24/7.”

Stewart and his two outreach workers — who together cover a territory
stretching from Richmond to communities in eastern Contra Costa County —
get a torrent of calls once night falls. The calls come from police,
public service agencies and people who need shelter for the night.
Stewart works the streets in response, handing out food, blankets,
clothing and medicine. He offers people rides and passes out hotel
vouchers and bus tickets.

I rode along with Stewart on one of his nighttime drives through
Martinez. It was after midnight when he spotted an older man, hunched
over at a bus stop. Stewart knew him. His name was Mark.

Mark was visibly drunk, and Stewart got out to gently warn him the cops
wouldn’t let him stay all night and that he should move.

“I don’t move as fast as I used to,” said Mark, who uses a walker to get
around.

Stewart gave Mark a ride to a different bus stop, one that’s a little
more discreet.

Doug Stewart has been providing homeless outreach in Contra Costa County
for 12 years.
Doug Stewart has been providing homeless outreach in Contra Costa County
for 12 years. (Devin Katayama/KQED)

“If the police come, you tell them I put you here, OK?” Stewart said.
“If somebody comes and bothers you, you tell them I put you here.”

Stewart won’t be helping Mark, or any of the other hundreds of people
he’s gotten to know over the years, for much longer. He’s “retiring” —
quitting to move on to something else — later this week.

The constant scramble for funding has taken a toll, Stewart says.

The Martinez Police Department provides one of seven grants that have
funded Stewart’s outreach unit this past year.

Martinez Police Chief Manjit Sappal says Stewart knows how to connect
people with the network of services that are available in a way that
police don’t.

“Doug can be far more approachable, and when we partner with him we get
the benefit of his building those relationships,” Sappal said.

Sappal says he’s concerned about the void Stewart will leave behind.
Sappal says he plans to hire one of Stewart’s employees to pick up where
he left off.

Stewart says that to carry on, you need to be ready for the harsh
reality he has seen night in and night out.

“You gotta be prepared for whatever’s in front of you, whether it’s
dangerous, sad, disgusting, whatever,” Stewart said while making his
rounds one evening.

He says he’s torn about ending work he knows has been important to so many.

“I feel bad, you know, I do,” Stewart says. “This takes a little chunk
out of you every night. You cannot continually go out every night and
see despair and sadness and be OK. It doesn’t work like that.”

*Homelessness is a complex issue. Learn more >>
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>*sfproject3
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>

Explore: Health <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/health/>, Housing
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>, homelessness
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/homelessness/>, video
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/video/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/original-homelessness-shifts-to-eastern-contra-costa-county/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/original-homelessness-shifts-to-eastern-contra-costa-county/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/original-homelessness-shifts-to-eastern-contra-costa-county/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/original-homelessness-shifts-to-eastern-contra-costa-county/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/original-homelessness-shifts-to-eastern-contra-costa-county/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/original-homelessness-shifts-to-eastern-contra-costa-county/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

3 Comments
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/original-homelessness-shifts-to-eastern-contra-costa-county/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related

Boxed In on San Francisco's Streets: Homeless Man Shares His Story

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/01/25/boxed-in-on-san-franciscos-streets-homeless-man-shares-his-story>

City Settles Lawsuit With Plaintiffs Living in Tent Village on Albany Bulb

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2014/04/23/albany-settles-with-plaintiffs-suing/>

Tent Cities Compete With Super Bowl City for Attention

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/02/02/tent-cities-compete-with-super-bowl-city-for-attention>

As El Niño-Fueled Rains Fall, L.A.'s Homeless Turn to Alternate Shelters

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/01/12/as-el-nino-fueled-rains-fall-l-a-s-homeless-turn-to-alternate-shelters/>

Martinez Refinery Flare Prompts Brief Contra Costa Health Advisory

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2015/12/15/martinez-refinery-flare-prompts-health-advisory>

Rookie and Veteran S.F. Police Officers Testify About Confronting,
Shooting Alejandro Nieto

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/03/03/rookie-and-veteran-s-f-police-officers-at-center-of-alejandro-nieto-shooting-testify>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


    Author


      Devin Katayama

Devin Katayama is a reporter covering the East Bay for KQED News.
Previously, he was the education reporter for WFPL in Louisville and
worked as a producer with radio stations in Chicago and Portland, OR.
His work has appeared on NPR’s /Morning Edition, All Things Considered,
The Takeaway/ and /Here and Now./

Devin earned his MA in Journalism from Columbia College Chicago, where
he was a Follett Fellow and the recipient of the 2011 Studs Terkel
Community Media Workshop Scholarship for his story on Chicago's homeless
youth. He won WBUR's 2014 Daniel Schorr award and a regional RTNDA
Edward R. Murrow Award for his documentary "At Risk" that looked at
issues facing some of Louisville's students. Devin has also received
numerous local awards from the Associated Press and the Society of
Professional Journalists.

Email: dkatayama@kqed.org <mailto:dkatayama@kqed.org> Twitter:
@RadioDevin Website: audiocollected.org

View all posts by this author <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/dkatayama/>


    Author


      Adam Grossberg

Adam Grossberg is a web video producer at KQED News.
Email: agrossberg@kqed.org.

View all posts by this author
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/agrossberg/>


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>


  Post navigation

Prev Attack at Istanbul's International Airport Kills Dozens

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/attack-at-istanbuls-international-airport-kills-dozens/>
Next Where Homeless People Can Get Free Meals in the Bay Area

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/where-homeless-people-can-get-free-meals-in-the-bay-area/>



  About KQED

  * About <http://www.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://www.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://www.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://www.kqed.org/about/help/index.jsp>


  Follow KQED News

  * Follow Us on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KQEDnews>
  * Follow Us on Twitter <https://twitter.com/kqednews>
  * Connect on Instagram <http://instagram.com/kqednews>
  * Connect on Google+ <https://plus.google.com/117185877001714843452/posts>
  * Connect on YouTube <https://www.youtube.com/user/KQEDnews>

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

[blank image]
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.


  Get the facts!

Close

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil
:)
