Thanks for checking out our new design, please let us know if you have
feedback
<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdOO_VWVDQBuiuRD1Fv-bPphJqfu9woDLdbDGn6cElU_mwtNA/viewform>


<http://sfist.com/>

<mailto:tips@sfist.com>

<https://www.facebook.com/pages/SFist/114102351977699>

<http://twitter.com/sfist>

<http://instagram.com/sfist>

  *

    SFist is a website about San Francisco


    View

    Pretty | Blog
  * Arts & Entertainment

    <http://sfist.com/arts>
  * Food

    <http://sfist.com/food>
  * News

    <http://sfist.com/news>
  * Popular

    <http://sfist.com/popular.php>
  * Advertising

    <http://gothamistllc.com/>
  * Contact

    <http://sfist.com/contact.php>
  * Newsletter

    <http://eepurl.com/yIS4z>
  * RSS Feed

    <http://sfist.com/index.rdf>
  * Staff

    <http://sfist.com/staff.php>
  * Our Cities

    <#>
      o Chicago

        <http://www.chicagoist.com/>
      o London

        <http://www.londonist.com/>
      o Los Angeles

        <http://www.laist.com/>
      o New York City

        <http://www.gothamist.com/>
      o San Francisco

        <http://www.sfist.com/>
      o Shanghai

        <http://www.shanghaiist.com/>
      o Toronto

        <http://www.torontoist.com/>
      o Washington DC

        <http://www.dcist.com/>
  *

    <mailto:tips@sfist.com>

    <https://www.facebook.com/pages/SFist/114102351977699>

    <http://twitter.com/sfist>

    <http://instagram.com/sfist>


  Insecurity In The City Of Food: How San Francisco Feeds Its Homeless

by Jack Morse <http://sfist.com/author/Jack%20Morse> in Food
<http://sfist.com/food>	on Jun 29, 2016 9:40 am

food-runners-2.jpg
/A Food Runner volunteer. Photo via Food Runners.

/

San Francisco is a city in love with food. Known for some of the best
restaurants in the country, we pride ourselves on influencing how the
rest of the world eats. Frequently lost in that discussion, however, are
those that not only can't afford to patronize whatever hip new spot has
received the latest raves, but who struggle just to find basic
sustenance each day. Whether they be homeless, or just temporarily down
on their luck, there are a large number of San Franciscans who have come
to depend on a host of organizations, both city-run and private,
providing healthy and free meals to those who might otherwise go
without. And just like many of our locally sourced and sustainable
restaurants, these groups have a very Bay-Area ethos that profoundly
impacts the way they operate — and the leftovers of our thriving
restaurant community actually play a big part in feeding the less
fortunate every day.

That the number of homeless on the streets of San Francisco has remained
mostly constant at roughly 6,000-7,000
<http://sfist.com/2016/02/11/71_of_sf_homeless_once_had_homes_in.php>
over the past decade (though there are arguments over that semi-official
number) belies the scale and severity of the problem of food insecurity
in the City by the Bay. In 2013, a report generated by the San Francisco
Food Security Task Force
<https://www.sfdph.org/dph/files/mtgsGrps/FoodSecTaskFrc/docs/FSTF-AssessmentOfFoodSecurityInSF-2013.pdf>
documented just how many of our residents go without the minimum daily
requirements for food. The report defines food insecurity as "whenever
the ability to acquire enough nutritious food is limited or uncertain,"
and notes that a chronic shortage of food can lead to a whole host of
health problems.

"Food insecurity is associated with adverse health outcomes including
increased stress and depression, incomplete viral suppression among
HIV-positive urban poor, higher rates of hospitalization, and acute care
utilization," the report explains. "It is a risk factor for chronic
diseases and clinically significant hypoglycemia, and is a barrier to
diabetes self-management."

Those impacted are as diverse as San Francisco itself, and include
seniors, children, parents, and veterans (to name only a few groups).
According to the San Francisco Department of Public Health, just shy of
51,000 San Franciscans use CalFresh, the modern incarnation of food
stamps, but that count under represents the number of residents who are
eligible. Indeed, with CalFresh providing as little as $16 a month to
some recipients, it appears that many people rely on a patchwork of
private organizations to secure the food they need.

One such service, Food Runners <http://www.foodrunners.org/>, was
started in 1987 by Tante Marie's Cooking School
<http://www.tantemarie.com/> founder Mary Risley as a way to get excess
food, both prepared and raw, from restaurants and venues around the city
into the hands of the needy. Almost 30 years later, the organization
collects and delivers close to 15 tons of food per week — food that
would otherwise end up in the compost bin.

L'Ann Bingham, Community Liaison Representative for the non-profit, told
SFist that her organization picks up from tech companies, AT&T Park,
Kaiser Hospital, bakeries, and various caterers. They don't store any
food, they just pick up and drop off. "We pick up very high quality
food," she explained. "It's an easy thing [for donors] to do — we make
it easy."

While a large portion of the food picked up is unprepared produce, some
of it is ready-to-eat meals. One such example are the meals donated by
Kaiser. "A meal in a Styrofoam tray might look bland/mundane on first
glance, but I have learned to see it from the perspective of folks who
eagerly wait for the boxes of individual meals that I deliver each
Saturday," wrote volunteer Terrie Raphael on the Food Runners blog
<http://blog.foodrunners.org/2016/06/hospital-bounty.html>. "It is
fresh, ready to eat and free. When it is hard to get to a store, hard to
afford food and hard to prepare a decent meal, hospital food is very
welcome."

food_runners_kaiser.jpg
/A box of meals picked up at Kaiser. Photo via Food Runners.

/

One of the places these pre-made meals are delivered to is Zygmund
Arendt House
<http://www.chp-sf.org/housing-services/housingproperties/zygmunt-arendt-house/>,
a housing community that supports formerly homeless seniors. Opened in
2010, the 47-unit building at 850 Broderick Street is named after a WWII
refugee and former railroad worker who died in 1998. Zygmunt Arendt left
$6 million to the city of SF with the stipulation that it be used to
help the poor and elderly. It was this money which spurred the
development of the housing community.

"Always," says Raphael of her drop-offs there, "I am thanked profusely."

A very different type of Food Runners recipient is the Fraternite Notre
Dame Mary of Nazareth
<http://www.fraternitenotredame.com/2011_2_0/san_francisco.php> soup
kitchen. Run by a group of nuns, the organization was in the news just
this past spring when motivational speaker Tony Robbins bought the nuns
a building
<http://sfist.com/2016/03/26/tony_robbins_buys_homeless-serving.php> in
the Mission District. Facing eviction from their original Tenderloin
location (their local order was founded in 2008, and the landlord
reportedly wanted to rent the building out for more money than the nuns
could afford) where they served food to approximately 300 visitors a
day, Robbins provided the roughly $750,000 needed for the purchase of a
new building. The nuns' new location is near 16th Street BART and the
city's first Homeless Navigation Center.

"All we want to do is help the homeless," Sister Mary of the Angels told
the Chronicle
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/Nuns-who-help-needy-face-eviction-in-S-F-s-6815676.php?t=46680113179de46609&cmpid=twitter-premium>
back in February. "Homeless people often have no affection," she added
in accented English, "and here we can say hello and give them some good
food. I give my heart."

The food the nuns serve, adapted from whatever food donations they
receive with a dash of French culinary skill, is reportedly some of the
best charity food in the city. Also, as 60-year-old meal recipient
Douglas Fennell told the paper, "They don't look down on us."

Food Runners also delivers to Martin de Porres House of Hospitality
<http://www.martindeporres.org/> on Potrero near 16th Street. This
self-styled "free restaurant" was founded in 1971 as a Catholic Worker
House of Hospitality, although it no longer has a religious affiliation.
Martin's, which receives food from numerous donors in addition to Food
Runners, considers itself distinct from the traditional soup kitchen.

"The distinction between soup kitchen and free restaurant has to do with
how we view the people who eat at Martin's," Martin's long-time
volunteer George Biniek explained to SFist. "We do not consider them
'clients,' 'bums,' 'homeless,' or any other pejorative names. They are
our honored guests and we try to treat them as such."

Martin's draws all kinds — from those clearly without homes to the
put-together and likely employed. Entering off Potrero Avenue, one is
first greeted by a beautiful garden. A mixture of people mill around
joking, smoking cigarettes, and eating the mostly vegetarian offerings.
Depending on the day of the week, visitors can also obtain volunteer
legal services to help deal with quality-of-life tickets
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/02/city_report_police_should_stop_enfo.php> or
medical services.

"We are a completely donation-based organization," said Biniek. "We do
not accept any government funds. Most of our food is either gotten
through the Food Bank, [or] we buy at the produce market. We have a deep
and long-standing relationship with Food Runners. [For example], every
Saturday they collect all the unsold produce from the farmers' market
and deliver it to us."

Although Martin's received international recognition back in 2007 when
the Dalai Lama visited
<http://sfist.com/2009/04/27/dalai_lama_visits_sf_soup_kitchen.php#photo-1>
and served soup to hungry guests, it generally keeps a lower profile
than some similar dining halls in town. "As opposed to Glide and St.
Anthony's," observed Biniek, "we are purposely a small operation."

dalai lama2.jpg
/The Dalai Lama passes a plate of food while eating lunch at Martin's.
AP Photo by Noah Berger.

/

Indeed, the scale of St. Anthony’s makes it clear just how badly its
services are needed. Located at 150 Golden Gate Avenue, the Tenderloin
organization's dining room opened to guests in 1950. Unlike other soup
kitchens of the time, St. Anthony's founder Fr. Alfred Boeddeker,
decided to not make receiving a meal contingent upon listening to a
sermon of some sort. Instead, he and the volunteers served any and all
comers — of which there continue to be many.

The results of a St. Anthony's dinning room survey
<https://www.stanthonysf.org/diningroomsurvey/>, published in May of
this year, show both how many free meals are provided and the diversity
of the people who eat there. In 2015, the organization served an average
of 2,423 meal per day. Of the guests eating these meals, just over a
third in 2015 self-identified as unemployed, and 46 percent identified
as homeless. Twenty-five percent of guests at St. Anthony's make less
than $100 a month.

Taylor Skillin, St. Anthony's Digital Media Lead, told SFist that just
like the other organizations we spoke with, St. Anthony's is very much
dependent on the donations of private organizations. "Our Dining Room
gets nearly half its food from SF-Marin Food Bank," Skillin noted. "The
Fruit Guys are also our largest donor of fresh fruit. Bi-Rite Market and
Safeway are also big donors."

Serving over three-quarters of a million meals in 2014, GLIDE Memorial
Church is another huge player in the daily fight against food
insecurity. Providing a host of free services since the 1960s, and
serving food since 1969, GLIDE serves three meals a day, 364 days a
year. Alone, those would be staggering numbers. When combined with the
many other organizations fighting hunger it suggests that San Francisco
is a city where simply getting something to eat is a daily struggle for
thousands.

When asked what city officials could do to help the work of
organizations like Food Runners, L'Ann Bingham laughed and suggested
something small. "Please don't give us a ticket when you see the Food
Runners yellow volunteer sign on our dashboard," she implored of SFMTA
meter maids. "Just please don't give us tickets."

While their battle against the SFMTA may be one the Food Runners
volunteers will always lose, they're in the fight against food
insecurity for the long haul — a fact which the roughly 300
organizations around the Bay that receive donations from them, and the
San Franciscans that depends on those organization for daily meals, all
count on dearly.


/More than 70 Bay Area news organizations are participating in this
media project that launches in full June 29. Follow the SF Homeless
Project on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/sfhomelessproject> and
Twitter <https://twitter.com/bayareahomeless>./

*Related:* We've Been Talking About Homelessness Like It's New And Like
It's The 'Worst Ever' For 30 Years
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/28/homelessness_language_and_coverage.php>
Why San Francisco's Homeless Became A Problem In 1982
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/27/san_francisco_homeless_history_1982.php>

Contact the author <http://sfist.com/staff.php> of this article or email
tips@sfist.com <mailto:tips@sfist.com> with further questions, comments
or tips.

  * food <http://sfist.com/tags/food>
  * homeless <http://sfist.com/tags/homeless>
  * homelessness <http://sfist.com/tags/homelessness>
  * sf homeless project <http://sfist.com/tags/sfhomelessproject>
  *


    Other Interesting Stories

  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
by Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Sponsored Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
.
Harry&#39;s
<https://ad.atdmt.com/c/go;p=11252201315513;ev.a=1;idfa=;idfa_lat=;aaid=;aaid_lat=;cache=?ad_image=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F7352b83bb011d367aa0fa8ffa4c4b7fc.jpg&ad_title=Why+This+Razor+Is+Causing+So+Many+Guys+To+Switch&site_id=gothamist-sfist>Why
This Razor Is Causing So Many Guys To SwitchHarry's
<https://ad.atdmt.com/c/go;p=11252201315513;ev.a=1;idfa=;idfa_lat=;aaid=;aaid_lat=;cache=?ad_image=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F7352b83bb011d367aa0fa8ffa4c4b7fc.jpg&ad_title=Why+This+Razor+Is+Causing+So+Many+Guys+To+Switch&site_id=gothamist-sfist>
Undo
MedPage Today
<http://www.medpagetoday.com/Rheumatology/GeneralRheumatology/55933?pop=0&ba=1&xid=tblarheum>RheumNow:
Risk of MS With TNF Inhibitor TherapyMedPage Today
<http://www.medpagetoday.com/Rheumatology/GeneralRheumatology/55933?pop=0&ba=1&xid=tblarheum>
Undo
DungeonFighterOnline
<http://www.dfoneople.com/Dungeon-Fighter-Online/Christmas-gifts-from-DFO?adinfo=taboolaus=201612a&utm_source=taboola&utm_campaign=us&utm_medium=native>The
Most Amazing Classic Action RPG Ever!DungeonFighterOnline
<http://www.dfoneople.com/Dungeon-Fighter-Online/Christmas-gifts-from-DFO?adinfo=taboolaus=201612a&utm_source=taboola&utm_campaign=us&utm_medium=native>
Undo
GQ
<http://www.gq.com/gallery/instagram-models-2016?mbid=tb_ppc_ros_gq_desktop>The
Most Follow-Worthy Instagram Models of the Year (Thus Far)GQ
<http://www.gq.com/gallery/instagram-models-2016?mbid=tb_ppc_ros_gq_desktop>
Undo
The Motley Fool
<http://www.fool.com/mms/mark/video-wearable/?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=contentmarketing&utm_campaign=wearable&source=erbtabimu0860042&utm_term=gothamist-sfist>Forget
The iPhone 7. Next Apple Sensation LeakedThe Motley Fool
<http://www.fool.com/mms/mark/video-wearable/?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=contentmarketing&utm_campaign=wearable&source=erbtabimu0860042&utm_term=gothamist-sfist>
Undo
HelloFresh
<https://www.hellofresh.com/storytelling-cd/?c=TABOOLA40&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=content&utm_campaign=ST&utm_content=gothamist-sfist&utm_term=This+Service+in+%24%7Bcity%3Acapitalized%7D%24+is+Changing+the+Way+People+Cook+at+Home>This
Service in Stanford is Changing the Way People Cook at HomeHelloFresh
<https://www.hellofresh.com/storytelling-cd/?c=TABOOLA40&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=content&utm_campaign=ST&utm_content=gothamist-sfist&utm_term=This+Service+in+%24%7Bcity%3Acapitalized%7D%24+is+Changing+the+Way+People+Cook+at+Home>
Undo
by Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>
Sponsored Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>
Additional Stories
<http://sfist.com/2016/12/05/profiles_oakland_warehouse_fire.php>Profiles Of
Eight People Who Died In The Oakland Warehouse Fire: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/12/05/profiles_oakland_warehouse_fire.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/12/03/pre-fire_photos_from_inside_oakland.php>Pre-Fire
Photos From Inside Oakland's 'Ghost Ship' Collective, Which Was Cited
Two Weeks Ago By Buildin…
<http://sfist.com/2016/12/03/pre-fire_photos_from_inside_oakland.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/13/gang_jumps_and_beats_chinatown_pede.php>Gang Jumps
And Beats Chinatown Pedestrian: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/13/gang_jumps_and_beats_chinatown_pede.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/15/valencia_street_cyclists_punch_and.php>Valencia
Street Cyclists Punch And Rob Woman Thursday: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/15/valencia_street_cyclists_punch_and.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/01/13/the_best_hook-up_bars_in_sf.php>The Best
Hook-Up Bars In SF: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/01/13/the_best_hook-up_bars_in_sf.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/04/13/the_halal_guys_sf_ofarrell_review.php>The
Halal Guys In SF: An Admittedly Early Review: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/04/13/the_halal_guys_sf_ofarrell_review.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/30/apartment_sadness_2400_for_crap_stu.php>Apartment
Sadness: $2400 For Crap House In El Cerrito: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/30/apartment_sadness_2400_for_crap_stu.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/08/17/tartine_manufactory_open.php>Photos:
Tartine's Massive Second Location, Tartine Manufactory, Open And Packed:
SFist <http://sfist.com/2016/08/17/tartine_manufactory_open.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/07/06/heres_what_employees_of_google_appl.php>Here's
What Facebook, Google, And Apple Employees Really Think About
Tech-Shuttle 'Hubs'…
<http://sfist.com/2016/07/06/heres_what_employees_of_google_appl.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/22/eff-ing_in_sf_vol_8_dating_advice_f.php>Eff-ing
In SF, Vol. 8: Five Signs He's A 'Peter Pan': SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/22/eff-ing_in_sf_vol_8_dating_advice_f.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/03/wiener_vs_kim_already_most_expensiv.php>Wiener
vs. Kim Already Most Expensive District 11 State Senate Race Ever: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/03/wiener_vs_kim_already_most_expensiv.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/10/05/gang_of_seven_attacks_man_in_sharon.php>Gang Of
Seven Attacks Man In Sharon Meadow: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/10/05/gang_of_seven_attacks_man_in_sharon.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/16/apartment_sadness_big_city_living_o.php>Apartment
Sadness: 'Big City Living On Outer City Dime' Now Means $2,700 Studios
In The Bayview: S…
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/16/apartment_sadness_big_city_living_o.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/21/ask_a_san_francisco_native_if_you_c.php>Ask
A San Francisco Native: If You Could, Where In SF Would You Buy A
House?: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/21/ask_a_san_francisco_native_if_you_c.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/02/26/apartment_sadness_share_a_soma_two-.php>Apartment
Sadness: Share A SoMa Two-Bedroom With Three Others, Wall Partitions:
SFist <http://sfist.com/2016/02/26/apartment_sadness_share_a_soma_two-.php>
Undo
Sponsored Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>
Additional Stories
<http://sfist.com/2016/12/05/profiles_oakland_warehouse_fire.php>Profiles Of
Eight People Who Died In The Oakland Warehouse Fire: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/12/05/profiles_oakland_warehouse_fire.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/12/03/pre-fire_photos_from_inside_oakland.php>Pre-Fire
Photos From Inside Oakland's 'Ghost Ship' Collective, Which Was Cited
Two Weeks Ago By Building Inspectors: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/12/03/pre-fire_photos_from_inside_oakland.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/13/gang_jumps_and_beats_chinatown_pede.php>Gang Jumps
And Beats Chinatown Pedestrian: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/13/gang_jumps_and_beats_chinatown_pede.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/15/valencia_street_cyclists_punch_and.php>Valencia
Street Cyclists Punch And Rob Woman Thursday: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/15/valencia_street_cyclists_punch_and.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/01/13/the_best_hook-up_bars_in_sf.php>The Best
Hook-Up Bars In SF: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/01/13/the_best_hook-up_bars_in_sf.php>
Undo
by Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>
  © 2003-2016 Gothamist LLC <http://gothamistllc.com/>. All rights
reserved. Terms of Use & Privacy Policy
<http://www.gothamistllc.com/mediakit/privacy_legal.php>.
Close this video ad
Never show video ads
Cancel Send

Pause
Current Time 0:29
/
Duration Time 0:30
Remaining Time -0:00
Stream TypeLIVE
Loaded: 0%
Progress: 0%
0:29
Fullscreen
00:00
Unmute
Playback Rate

1
Subtitles

  * subtitles off

Captions

  * captions settings
  * captions off

Chapters

  * Chapters

Foreground

Background

Window

Font Size

Text Edge Style

Font Family

DefaultsDone

