
      RVSP to receive details and a reminder email about online
      screening event.

Email Address

RSVP


      Thanks!

We'll send a reminder email one hour before the online screening event
starts.

Be sure to create an OVEE account
<https://ovee.itvs.org/auth/login#sign-up> before the screening day.
/ /Add to CalendarfalseMM/DD/YYYY
  


      Sorry!

We can't take RSVPs right now.
Please try again later.

<https://ovee.itvs.org/>

<http://www.itvs.org/>

<http://www.dogtownredemption.com/>


    Dogtown Redemption

WednesdayJune2912:30pm
WednesdayJune2912:30pm
/ /06/29/2016 12:30:00 pm06/29/2016 01:30:00
pmAmerica/Los_AngelesDogtown RedemptionJoin us LIVE for a lunchtime
screening and discussion about the issue of homelessness in the Bay
Area. On June 29th @ 12:30pm we will screen the Oakland based film
Dogtown Redemption while live chatting with filmmakers Amir Soltani &
Chihiro Wimbush, Terry Messman - Editor of Street Spirit, and Jason
Pellegrini - Facilities Director at Delivering Innovation in Supportive
Housing (DISH) - dishsf.org. Once in OVEE, join the discussion by
chatting with other viewers, ask questions of the panelists and learn
more about this issue affecting nearly 7,000 people in the Bay Area.
Ovee is a real-time social media platform - accessible from any laptop,
tablet or iphone - that integrates video, chat and live streaming,
allowing participants to engage with each other and panelists while
simultaneously watching an event.
https://ovee.itvs.org/screenings/ns5v2Maya
Churimaya_churi@itvs.orgfalseMM/DD/YYYY
ENTER SCREENING

The screening has begun.
Share 
<https://www.facebook.com/dialog/feed?&app_id=471501782884129&link=https%3A%2F%2Fovee.itvs.org%2Fscreenings%2Fns5v2&name=Dogtown%20Redemption&description=Join%20us%20LIVE%20for%20a%20lunchtime%20screening%20and%20discussion%20about%20the%20issue%20of%20homelessness%20in%20the%20Bay%20Area.%20%0D%0A%0D%0AOn%20June%2029th%20%40%2012%3A30pm%20we%20will%20screen%20the%20Oakland%20based%20film%20Dogtown%20Redemption%20while%20live%20chatting%20with%20filmmakers%20Amir%20Soltani%20%26%20Chihiro%20Wimbush%2C%20Terry%20Messman%20-%20Editor%20of%20Street%20Spirit%2C%20and%20Jason%20Pellegrini%20-%20Facilities%20Director%20at%20Delivering%20Innovation%20in%20Supportive%20Housing%20(DISH)%20-%20dishsf.org.%0D%0A%0D%0AOnce%20in%20OVEE%2C%20join%20the%20discussion%20by%20chatting%20with%20other%20viewers%2C%20ask%20questions%20of%20the%20panelists%20and%20learn%20more%20about%20this%20issue%20affecting%20nearly%207%2C000%20people%20in%20the%20Bay%20Area.%0D%0A%0D%0AOvee%20is%20a%20real-time%20social%20media%20platform%20-%20accessible%20from%20any%20laptop%2C%20tablet%20or%20iphone%20-%20that%20integrates%20video%2C%20chat%20and%20live%20streaming%2C%20allowing%20participants%20to%20engage%20with%20each%20other%20and%20panelists%20while%20simultaneously%20watching%20an%20event.%20%20%0D%0A%0D%0A%0D%0A&picture=http%3A%2F%2Fs3.amazonaws.com%2Fscreening-assets.itvs.org%2F9f045ac8-6133-4ca9-a4a9-9b479a42fe77.jpg&redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fovee.itvs.org%2Fscreenings%2Fns5v2%2Ffacebook-shares%2Fcreate> 
<https://twitter.com/share?&url=https%3A%2F%2Fovee.itvs.org%2Fscreenings%2Fns5v2&text=Join%20the%20online%20OVEE%20screening%20on%2006%2F29%2F2016%20at%2012%3A30pm%20Pacific%20Time%20of%20Dogtown%20Redemption>

By signing in, you are authorizing ITVS to share information collected
from you with any persons or entities participating in or hosting the
screening, and to send you periodic communications about related events,
services, and support. Any other uses of your information by ITVS are
governed by ITVS’s Privacy Policy
<https://ovee.itvs.org/pages/privacy_policy> and Terms of Service
<https://ovee.itvs.org/pages/terms_of_service>.

Close


    Enter Screening

Sign In <https://ovee.itvs.org/screenings/ns5v2/login>//Facebook
<https://ovee.itvs.org/auth/facebook_login>Register
<https://ovee.itvs.org/screenings/ns5v2/register-early#sign-up>Enter
Anonymously

<#>


      Welcome

Join us LIVE for a lunchtime screening and discussion about the issue of
homelessness in the Bay Area.

On June 29th @ 12:30pm we will screen the Oakland based film Dogtown
Redemption while live chatting with filmmakers Amir Soltani & Chihiro
Wimbush, Terry Messman - Editor of Street Spirit, and Jason Pellegrini -
Facilities Director at Delivering Innovation in Supportive Housing
(DISH) - dishsf.org.

Once in OVEE, join the discussion by chatting with other viewers, ask
questions of the panelists and learn more about this issue affecting
nearly 7,000 people in the Bay Area.

Ovee is a real-time social media platform - accessible from any laptop,
tablet or iphone - that integrates video, chat and live streaming,
allowing participants to engage with each other and panelists while
simultaneously watching an event.


      Video Descriptions


        Dogtown Redemption Intro Image


        OVEE INTRO


        Dogtown Redemption

Dogtown Redemption explores the complex dynamics of race, class, and
systemic poverty as it tells the story of four recyclers in Oakland who
struggle to survive in a neighborhood already decimated by unemployment,
addiction, and violence.


        OVEE OUTRO 1

60 minutes


        Moderator

  *
    Maya Churi <http://itvs.org/>

    Maya is an OVEE producer at ITVS.


        Panelists

  *
    Amir Soltani <http://www.dogtownredemption.com/>

    Amir Soltani is the Producer and Co-Director of DOGTOWN REDEMPTION.
    Amir is an Iranian American Human Rights Activist, He has worked in
    journalism, philanthropy and business. He is the author of Zhara's
    Paradise, a New York Times Bestselling graphic novel on Iran's 2009
    protests. Amir studied history at Tufts and Harvard. DOGTOWN
    REDEMPTION is his first documentary.

  *
    Chihiro Wimbush <http://www.dogtownredemption.com/>

    Chihiro Wimbush is the co-director and co-producer of Dogtown
    Redemption. Chihiro has helped produce narrative feature films for
    Wayne Wang, Rich Wong and HP Mendoza, while directing, shooting and
    editing short documentaries with K Pacific Production partner Jim
    Choi. He has written, directed and edited narrative short films
    which have screened at film festivals around North America from
    Vancouver, Canada to Austin, Texas.

  *
    Terry Messman <http://www.thestreetspirit.org/>

    Terry Messman is the editor of Street Spirit, a street newspaper
    published by the American Friends Service Committee which has
    covered issues of poverty, homelessness and social justice for over
    21 years and is sold by homeless vendors in the East Bay Area,
    California. Street Spirit collaborated with Dogtown Redemption on a
    special issue in May 2016 and has begun distributing DVDs of the
    film through its street vendors in order to amplify media that
    serves and benefits the poor.

  *
    Jason Pellegrini <http://dishsf.org/>

    Jason is Facilities Director at Delivering Innovation in Supportive
    Housing (DISH). He is a born and bred San Franciscan. His love for
    the “City by the Bay” was evidenced early after the ’89 Loma-Prieta
    earthquake when, at a young age, he went through his neighborhood
    and loaded up his Radio Flyer red wagon with debris to help with the
    cleanup efforts. After attending Gonzaga University, he finished his
    education at the University of San Francisco with a B.S. in
    Organizational Behavior and Leadership. Jason worked in the private
    sector as an account executive in facilities services before
    becoming the regional manager for a large site service company.
    Desiring to do something different with his life, Jason joined DISH
    and is now thrilled to have the opportunity to improve his city and
    truly change people’s lives. www.dishsf.org

Before you get started in OVEE:

1. Ensure you are using the most current version of your favorite browser:

  * Chrome <http://www.google.com/chrome>
  * Firefox <http://www.mozilla.org/firefox>
  * Safari on OS X 10.8 (Mountain Lion) or higher
    <http://www.apple.com/safari/download/>
  * Internet Explorer
    <http://windows.microsoft.com/en-US/internet-explorer/downloads/ie>

2. Run a test <https://ovee.itvs.org/diagnostics> to ensure OVEE works
properly on your computer

The views and opinions expressed in this online screening are those of
the presenters and participants, and do not necessarily reflect the
views or policies of ITVS, public broadcasting, or any entities hosting
the screening. 

created by ITVS <http://www.itvs.org/>funded by CPB
<http://www.cpb.org/>powered by PBS Video <http://video.pbs.org/>youTube
<http://youtube.com/>
About <https://ovee.itvs.org/pages/about>Privacy Policy
<https://ovee.itvs.org/pages/privacy_policy>Terms of Service
<https://ovee.itvs.org/pages/terms_of_service>

Copyright © 2016 Independent Television Service, Inc.

