  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * The Cannifornian

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

The Mercury News

<http://www.mercurynews.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local

    <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * The Cannifornian

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>


        June 29 Readers’ letters
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/29/june-29-readers-letters/>


Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/29/june-29-readers-letters/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/29/june-29-readers-letters/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/29/june-29-readers-letters/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/29/june-29-readers-letters/#print>
*

<#>

Trending:

  * Sherri Papini case
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/sherri-papini-consultant-asked-to-find-another-missing-california-mom/>

  * 49ers should’ve kept Smith
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/purdy-the-kap-vs-alex-argument-is-settled-and-its-become-obvious-the-49ers-made-the-wrong-choice/>

  * Kim K. to divorce?
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/is-kim-kardashian-plotting-to-divorce-kanye-west/>

  * Pitt vs. Jolie
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/brad-pitt-moves-to-seal-documents-in-angelina-jolie-custody-dispute/>

  * After cold snap, rain
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/bay-area-weather-after-cold-snap-rain-on-the-way/>

  * Bay Area poverty
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/more-bay-area-residents-struggling-than-poverty-statistics-indicate/>



            Opinion <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>Letters
<http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/letters/>


  June 29 Readers’ letters


Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/29/june-29-readers-letters/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/29/june-29-readers-letters/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/29/june-29-readers-letters/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/29/june-29-readers-letters/#print>
*

By Mercury News Readers
<http://www.mercurynews.com/author/from-mercury-news-readers/>	
June 29, 2016 at 5:34 am

Leaders making effort to end homelessness

With this week’s targeted media focus on homelessness, I want to give a
shout out to a few of the groups working to end homelessness in our
county. Homelessness decreased by 14 percent in Santa Clara County in
the last couple of years. This was no coincidence, but was the result of
outcomes-driven collaboration between government and nonprofit leaders.
The new partnership between the city of San Jose, Santa Clara County,
and the Housing Authority of Santa Clara County has helped hundreds of
homeless residents move indoors. Destination: Home, a public-private
partnership working to end homelessness, completed a Community Plan to
End Homelessness in 2015 and has implemented many of the
recommendations. Developers, including First Community Housing,
Charities Housing, PATH/Affirmed Housing and Abode Communities, have
stepped up to build hundreds of homes for the homeless. There’s still
more to do, but we have the right people working together in response.

Leslye Corsiglia

Executive Director SV@Home

Immigration ruling reeks of hypocrisy

Such hypocrisy. The Supreme Court voted down DAPA (Deferred Action for
Parents of Americans) and placed restrictions on DACA (Deferred Action
for Childhood Arrivals). These same conservative justices probably enjoy
fresh fruit shipped from California daily. The fruit they enjoy is
picked by an undocumented farmworker; 75 percent are undocumented in
California. Most farmworkers were run off their small farms in Mexico as
a result of President Clinton’s trade agreement, NAFTA. With no
alternative survival plan, they are economic refugees of our trade
policies and can no longer visit their families in Mexico. They live in
the California shadows in constant fear of deportation. DAPA and DACA
were their hope for the future. How is this an example of so-called
“family values,” so adamantly promoted by some?

Ann Aurelia López

Professor, author, and director of the Center for Farmworker Families Felton

San Jose City Council should extend road diet

The Mercury News editorial (“Willow Glen ‘road diet’ needs to stay,”
Editorial, June 28) pointed out the many benefits of the road diet. I
think those benefits should be extended to downtown San Jose. The City
Council should put downtown San Jose on a road diet.

Alan Heimlich

San Jose

Recall of Persky sets a dangerous precedent

Professor Mark Lemley got it wrong about recalling Judge Aaron Persky. I
agree that Judge Persky made a serious mistake. But as Professor Lemley
acknowledged, the sentence does not constitute judicial misconduct, and
the judge followed the Probation Office’s recommendation. Recall is not
appropriate and would set a dangerous precedent.

What would recall accomplish? People who are upset by the sentence might
feel better. Judge Persky will lose his job. And every California judge
will learn that he/she might be fired for a mistake in a case about
which people feel strongly — maybe immigration, gun rights, or abortion.
Only the most intrepid judge will not be intimidated at least a little
by the prospect of a recall campaign for being on the “wrong” side of a
controversial issue.

An independent and unintimidated judiciary is essential. Recall should
be reserved for misconduct or a pattern of mistakes that demonstrates
unfitness for office. It should not be used as punishment for one
unpopular decision.

A. Douglas Melamed

Professor of the Practice of Law Stanford Law School

Gun control position defines Republicans

Yet again, Republicans have reconfirmed the definition of GOP: Guns Over
People.

Stewart A. Levin

Menlo Park

Diablo Canyon debate ignores complex issues

The decision to retire the Diablo Canyon nuclear power plant is not a
simple issue. Advocates on both sides too easily frame the debate in
simplistic terms, ignoring the complex trade-offs that are a part of
every conversation about energy. Nuclear energy provides baseline power,
available when the sun doesn’t shine and the wind doesn’t blow. This is
the main argument for keeping the plant open. The first solution is to
reduce the overall demand for electricity through energy efficiency, an
inexpensive strategy that yields great savings over time. The second
solution is to use batteries to store excess solar energy. This
technology is rapidly advancing and will transform the energy landscape,
long before Diablo Canyon closes in 2025.

Mark Finhill

San Jose

Review: Samsung Fixes the TV Remote
<http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>

Sponsored Content


        Review: Samsung Fixes the TV Remote
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>


By Samsung
<http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>

Geoffrey A. Fowler tests Samsung’s 2016 TVs, which have one smart
clicker to control all our cable boxes, disc players, video streamers
and apps

  * Tags: 
  * Letters <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/letters/>


      Mercury News Readers
<http://www.mercurynews.com/author/from-mercury-news-readers/>

Subscribe Today! All Access Digital offer for just 99 cents!
<https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dsssubscribe.aspx>
 
You Might Also Like

  *
    Tips on How To Become a Manager Tips on How To Become a Manager CAL
    STATE MONTEREY BAY
    <https://mba.csumb.edu/blog/tips-on-how-to-become-a-manager?utm_source=Outbrain&utm_medium=Online%20Media&utm_campaign=CSUMB_Native>

  *
    10 Best Rewards Cards: Get $150 Bonus Cashback 10 Best Rewards
    Cards: Get $150 Bonus Cashback GET.com
    <https://www.get.com/credit-cards-best-bonus-offers/?ad=outbrain_bonus_150&utm_medium=cpc&utm_source=outbrain_248358&utm_campaign=outbrain_bonus_150_69875867&oclid=9eb4fd9cb68b03266344c24d4c2cbbc1>

  *
    Reach data quickly—anywhere, anytime—with the Intel® Xeon® processor
    E5 v4 family Reach data quickly—anywhere, anytime—with the Intel®…
    Intel Servers Rock
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/310019257;137043392;v> 

  *
    Sales Team Leaders: Download This Report to Stay Cutting-Edge Sales
    Team Leaders: Download This Report to Stay… Salesforce
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/314701010;142500865;j>
  *
    Free eBook: 5 Ways to Maximize Your Selling Time Free eBook: 5 Ways
    to Maximize Your Selling Time Salesforce
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/314701019;142500874;s>
  *
    Discover the future of buying power as you explore new server
    solutions from Intel and Microsoft Discover the future of buying
    power as you explore new… Intel Servers Rock
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/310638932;138208410;x> 

  *
    Ask Amy: My new daughter-in-law doesn’t know about this toxic woman
    Ask Amy: My new daughter-in-law doesn’t know about… MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/10/13/ask-amy-toxic-in-law-forms-an-alliance/>

  *
    California woman who got face tattoo to conceal her identity
    sentenced in hit-and-run death California woman who got face tattoo
    to conceal her… MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/california-woman-who-got-face-tattoo-to-conceal-her-identity-sentenced-in-hit-and-run-death/>

  *
    Raiders: Potential returns of Aldon Smith, Mario Edwards Jr. could
    give defense needed boost Raiders: Potential returns of Aldon Smith,
    Mario… MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/10/27/raiders-potential-returns-of-aldon-smith-mario-edwards-jr-could-give-defense-needed-boost/>


Recommended by<http://www.outbrain.com/what-is/default/en>

Sign up for our newsletters!

Subscribe <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
Follow Us

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>


    Most Popular

 1. Oakland fire aftermath: Evictions as artists’ worst fears come true

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/evictions-in-ghost-ships-wake-artists-worst-fears-coming-true/>

 2. Kim Kardashian is plotting to divorce Kanye West, one report says

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/is-kim-kardashian-plotting-to-divorce-kanye-west/>

 3. San Jose: Firefighters knock down abandoned home fire, suspect squatter

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-jose-firefighters-knock-down-abandoned-home-fire-suspect-squatter/>

 4. Oakland warehouse fire: Officials release names of 9 more victims

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/oakland-warehouse-fire-search-for-victims-85-percent-complete-death-toll-still-36/>

 5. Purdy: It’s now obvious the 49ers should have kept Smith, not
    Kaepernick

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/purdy-the-kap-vs-alex-argument-is-settled-and-its-become-obvious-the-49ers-made-the-wrong-choice/>

 6. Eddy Lepp free after 10-year sentence for growing marijuana

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/cannabis-convict-eddy-lepp-free-after-long-prison-term/>

 7. Sherri Papini ‘consultant’ asked to find another missing California mom

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/sherri-papini-consultant-asked-to-find-another-missing-california-mom/>

 8. Oakland: Artists, restaurant at odds over Salt Lick warehouse
    following deadly Ghost Ship blaze

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-artists-restaurant-at-odds-over-salt-lick-warehouse/>



    More in Opinion

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/cepeda-media-still-talking-down-to-people-of-the-heartland/>

    The media are covering the Trump states more often, but they're
    talking down to the people they say they want to pay attention to.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/cepeda-media-still-talking-down-to-people-of-the-heartland/>



              Cepeda: Media still talking down to people of the
              Heartland
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/cepeda-media-still-talking-down-to-people-of-the-heartland/>


    December 07, 2016, 7:07 pm

    The media are covering the Trump states more often, but they’re
    talking down to the people they say they want to pay attention to.
    3

    <#comments>

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/will-with-carrier-trump-tramples-conservative-values/>

    By paying public money to coerce Carrier to keep some of its jobs in
    Indiana, Donald Trump and Mike Pence trampled free market principles
    and showed themselves to be no more conservative than Barack Obama.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/will-with-carrier-trump-tramples-conservative-values/>



              Will: With Carrier, Trump tramples conservative values
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/will-with-carrier-trump-tramples-conservative-values/>


    December 07, 2016, 5:22 pm

    By paying public money to coerce Carrier to keep some of its jobs in
    Indiana, Donald Trump and Mike Pence trampled free market principles
    and showed themselves to be no more conservative than Barack Obama.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/editorial-contra-costa-district-attorney-should-resign/>

    Contra Costa DA Mark Peterson's illegal use of $66,372 of campaign
    funds for personal expenses was an egregious breach of state rules
    by the county's top law enforcement official.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/editorial-contra-costa-district-attorney-should-resign/>



              Editorial: Contra Costa district attorney should resign
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/editorial-contra-costa-district-attorney-should-resign/>


    December 07, 2016, 11:16 am

    Contra Costa DA Mark Peterson’s illegal use of $66,372 of campaign
    funds for personal expenses was an egregious breach of state rules
    by the county’s top law enforcement official.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/nasol-mann-nguyen-evergreen-college-land-can-provide-education-revenue/>

    Board members say the Evergreen College 27 acres that neighbors want
    to preserve for education can better be used for commercial space
    and can pay rent to support education.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/nasol-mann-nguyen-evergreen-college-land-can-provide-education-revenue/>



              Nasol, Mann, Nguyen: Evergreen College land can provide
              education revenue
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/nasol-mann-nguyen-evergreen-college-land-can-provide-education-revenue/>


    December 07, 2016, 9:29 am

    Board members say the Evergreen College 27 acres that neighbors want
    to preserve for education can better be used for commercial space
    and can pay rent to support education.

  * Member Services <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
  * News Alerts <https://digioh.com/BANG/general?source=TakeAction>

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>

  * Subscribe

    <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx?pid=22>

    <#>
      o Manage Your Subscription <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
      o All Access Subscriptions <http://www.bayareanewsaccess.com/>
      o Today’s e-Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
      o Newsletter Sign-Up <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
      o Mobile Apps <http://www.mercurynews.com/mobile/>
  * Contact Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/contact-us/>

    <#>
      o Corrections <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/corrections/>
      o Reprints <http://www.mercurynews.com/reprints/>
      o Archive Search <http://www.mercurynews.com/archive-search/>
      o Lottery <http://www.mercurynews.com/lottery/>
  * Classifieds

    <http://marketplace.bayareanewsgroup.com/marketplace/>

    <#>
      o Autos <http://www.norcaldrives.com/>
      o Jobs <http://www.mercurynews.com/jobs/>
      o Real Estate <http://realestate.mercurynews.com/>
      o Place an Obituary
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
      o Place a Legal Ad
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/legals/index.html>
  * Advertise With Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/advertise/>

    <#>
      o Today’s Ads <http://ads.mercurynews.com/>
      o Weekly Ads <http://www.mercurynews.com/weekly-ads/>
      o Local Guide <http://mylocal.mercurynews.com/>
      o Fry’s Ad
        <http://newspaperads.mercurynews.com/FSI/tiles.aspx?advid=200177&loc=53824>
      o Public Notices <http://capublicnotice.com/>

  * © 2016 Digital First Media <http://www.digitalfirstmedia.com/>
  * Site Map <http://www.mercurynews.com/sitemap.xml>
  * Copyright <http://www.mercurynews.com/copyright/>
  * Privacy Policy <http://www.mercurynews.com/privacy-policy/>
  * Arbitration
    <http://local.digitalfirstmedia.com/common/dfm/arbitration.pdf>
  * Powered by WordPress.com VIP <https://vip.wordpress.com/>
  * Bay Area News Group

    <http://www.bayareanewsgroup.com/>


      Email This Article

Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel

<#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

Quantcast
:)
