  * Home <http://kron4.com/>
  * News <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o Bay Area News <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o California News <http://kron4.com/category/news/california-news/>
      o DECISION 2016
        <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/election-2016/>
      o National <http://kron4.com/category/news/national/>
      o International <http://kron4.com/category/news/international/>
      o Politics <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/>
      o Strange <http://kron4.com/category/news/strange/>
      o Entertainment News <http://kron4.com/bitesizetv/>
      o MyKRON4Story <http://kron4.com/category/news/mykron4story/>
      o Our Team <http://kron4.com/category/news/kron4-news-team/>
  * Bay Area Weather <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>
      o Airport Delays <http://kron4.com/weather/airport-delays/>
      o Current Conditions <http://kron4.com/weather/current-conditions/>
      o Earthquakes <http://kron4.com/weather/earthquakes/>
      o Fire Danger <http://kron4.com/weather/fire-danger/>
      o Forecasts <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>
      o Live Cameras <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>
      o Rainfall Totals <http://kron4.com/weather/rainfall-totals/>
      o Satellite <http://kron4.com/weather/satellite/>
      o SatRad <http://kron4.com/weather/satrad/>
      o Weather Alerts <http://kron4.com/weather-alerts/>
  * Traffic <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
      o Live Cameras <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Traffic Conditions
        <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
  * Sports <http://kron4.com/category/sports/>
      o Gary’s World <http://kron4.com/category/sports/gary-radnich/>
      o San Francisco 49ers <http://kron4.com/category/sports/49ers/>
      o Oakland A’s <http://kron4.com/category/sports/as/>
      o Cal <http://kron4.com/category/sports/cal/>
      o Giants <http://kron4.com/category/sports/giants/>
      o Raiders <http://kron4.com/category/sports/raiders/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes
        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o Sharks <http://kron4.com/category/sports/sharks/>
      o Stanford <http://kron4.com/category/sports/stanford-sports/>
      o Warriors <http://kron4.com/category/sports/warriors/>
  * Features <http://kron4.com/category/features/>
      o Holidays 2016 <http://kron4.com/category/holidays-2016/>
      o New Year’s Live on KRON 4
        <http://kron4.com/category/new-years-live-on-kron-4/>
      o Bay Area Living <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/>
      o KRON 4 BackStory <http://kron4.com/category/kron-4-backstory/>
      o Dine & Dish <http://kron4.com/category/features/dine-dish/>
      o Family Fun <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/family-fun/>
      o KRON 4’s Teacher of the Week
        <http://kron4.com/kron-4s-teacher-of-the-week/>
      o Tech Trends <http://kron4.com/category/features/tech/>
      o People Behaving Badly
        <http://kron4.com/category/features/people-behaving-badly/>
  * KRON <http://kron4.com/category/kron/>
      o Jobs at KRON <http://kron4.com/category/kron/jobs-at-kron/>
      o Community <http://kron4.com/category/kron/community/>
      o Contests <http://kron4.com/category/kron/contests/>
      o Advertising Terms and Conditions
        <https://mgtvkron.files.wordpress.com/2014/12/young-broadcasting-advertising-ts-and-cs.pdf>
      o Advertise with KRON 4
        <http://kron4.com/category/advertise-with-kron/>
      o History of Bay Area
        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/25/tech-trends-history-of-bay-area-revived-through-remastering-old-news-film-footage/>
  * KRON 4 Live <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Live News Casts <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Second Screen Live Stream
        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/16/live-stream-kron4-news-second-screen/>
  * More <http://kron4.com/category/more/>
      o Report It! <http://kron4.com/report-it/>
      o Contact Us <http://kron4.com/contact-us/>
      o Television Schedule <http://kron4.com/television-schedule/>
      o Marketplace <http://kron4.com/category/marketplace/>
      o Closed Captioning Contact Info
        <http://kron4.com/closed-captioning-contact-information/>


  KRON4.com <http://kron4.com/>

Broken Clouds


      55° F

Broken Clouds

  * Hi: 58° F
  * Lo: 47° F

<http://kron4.com/category/weather>

  * San Francisco Bay Area Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>
  * Forecasts <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>
  * Bay Area Traffic Conditions
    <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>


Menu

Skip to content

<#content>  
Home

<http://kron4.com/>

  * News

    <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o Bay Area News

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o California News

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/california-news/>
      o DECISION 2016

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/election-2016/>
      o National

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/national/>
      o International

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/international/>
      o Politics

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/>
      o Strange

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/strange/>
      o Entertainment News

        <http://kron4.com/bitesizetv/>
      o MyKRON4Story

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/mykron4story/>
      o Our Team

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/kron4-news-team/>
  * Bay Area Weather

    <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>


          Bay Area Weather

      o Airport Delays <http://kron4.com/weather/airport-delays/>
      o Current Conditions <http://kron4.com/weather/current-conditions/>
      o Earthquakes <http://kron4.com/weather/earthquakes/>
      o Fire Danger <http://kron4.com/weather/fire-danger/>
      o Forecasts <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>
      o Live Cameras <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>
      o Rainfall Totals <http://kron4.com/weather/rainfall-totals/>
      o Satellite <http://kron4.com/weather/satellite/>
      o SatRad <http://kron4.com/weather/satrad/>
      o Weather Alerts <http://kron4.com/weather-alerts/>


          Current Conditions


          55° F

    Broken Clouds

      o Feels Like: 55° F
      o Wind: W 16
      o Humidity: 86%
      o Dewpoint: 51° F
      o Sunrise: 7:09 AM
      o Sunset: 4:50 PM

    <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>


          San Francisco Weather


    Forecast <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>

    Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>


    Currently <http://kron4.com/weather/current-conditions/>

    Live Cams <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>

    Sponsored by:

  * Traffic

    <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
      o Live Cameras

        <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Traffic Conditions

        <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
  * Sports

    <http://kron4.com/category/sports/>
      o Gary’s World

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/gary-radnich/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/49ers/>
      o Oakland A’s

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/as/>
      o Cal

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/cal/>
      o Giants

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/giants/>
      o Raiders

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/raiders/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o Sharks

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/sharks/>
      o Stanford

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/stanford-sports/>
      o Warriors

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/warriors/>
  * Features

    <http://kron4.com/category/features/>
      o Holidays 2016

        <http://kron4.com/category/holidays-2016/>
      o New Year’s Live on KRON 4

        <http://kron4.com/category/new-years-live-on-kron-4/>
      o Bay Area Living

        <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/>
      o KRON 4 BackStory

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron-4-backstory/>
      o Dine & Dish

        <http://kron4.com/category/features/dine-dish/>
      o Family Fun

        <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/family-fun/>
      o KRON 4’s Teacher of the Week

        <http://kron4.com/kron-4s-teacher-of-the-week/>
      o Tech Trends

        <http://kron4.com/category/features/tech/>
      o People Behaving Badly

        <http://kron4.com/category/features/people-behaving-badly/>
  * KRON

    <http://kron4.com/category/kron/>
      o Jobs at KRON

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron/jobs-at-kron/>
      o Community

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron/community/>
      o Contests

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron/contests/>
      o Advertising Terms and Conditions

        <https://mgtvkron.files.wordpress.com/2014/12/young-broadcasting-advertising-ts-and-cs.pdf>
      o Advertise with KRON 4

        <http://kron4.com/category/advertise-with-kron/>
      o History of Bay Area

        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/25/tech-trends-history-of-bay-area-revived-through-remastering-old-news-film-footage/>
  * KRON 4 Live

    <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Live News Casts

        <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Second Screen Live Stream

        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/16/live-stream-kron4-news-second-screen/>
  * More

    <http://kron4.com/category/more/>
      o Report It!

        <http://kron4.com/report-it/>
      o Contact Us

        <http://kron4.com/contact-us/>
      o Television Schedule

        <http://kron4.com/television-schedule/>
      o Marketplace

        <http://kron4.com/category/marketplace/>
      o Closed Captioning Contact Info

        <http://kron4.com/closed-captioning-contact-information/>

Search for:

Search the site <#>
Broken Clouds


      55° F

Broken Clouds

  * Hi: 58° F
  * Lo: 47° F

<http://kron4.com/category/weather>


  KRON4 teams up with media outlets for San Francisco Homeless Project

By Aaron Pero <http://kron4.com/author/kron4aaronpero/> Published: June
28, 2016, 2:46 pm

  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/kron4-teams-up-with-media-outlets-for-san-francisco-homeless-project/?share=twitter>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/kron4-teams-up-with-media-outlets-for-san-francisco-homeless-project/?share=google-plus-1>
  * Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/kron4-teams-up-with-media-outlets-for-san-francisco-homeless-project/?share=facebook>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/kron4-teams-up-with-media-outlets-for-san-francisco-homeless-project/?share=pinterest>

460x (3)

SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — More than 70 media organizations in San Francisco
plan to saturate online, TV and print publications this week with news
stories about an issue that has stumped politicians and residents for
decades: The city’s homeless.

IN-DEPTH COVERAGE: KRON4’s SF HOMELESS PROJECT
<http://kron4.com/category/sf-homeless-project/>

Homelessness has defined San Francisco for generations, with panhandlers
and urine-stained sidewalks as much a part of the scenery as the Golden
Gate Bridge or Victorian homes on a hillside. But with thousands of
newcomers and tensions exacerbated by a shortage of affordable housing,
complaints about those who live on the streets are growing.

Media outlets will concentrate their coverage Wednesday but plan stories
throughout the week in a push to inform residents and spur action. The
San Francisco Chronicle, one of the city’s two daily newspapers, has
lined up a week of coverage capped by a front-page editorial
Sunday. 460x (4) <https://mgtvkron.files.wordpress.com/2016/06/460x-47.jpg>

“We have expertise, and we have resources,” said Audrey Cooper, the
Chronicle’s editor-in-chief who created the idea for the “SF Homeless
Project.” ”We want things to get better, too, and we want people to make
smarter decisions.”

SAN FRANCISCO HOMELESS PROJECT’S TWITTER FEED
<https://twitter.com/bayareahomeless>

Media companies in Southern California and Seattle also plan to
participate in the media blitz.

The Southern California News Group plans front-page coverage as well as
an editorial to run across its publications, including the Los Angeles
Daily News and Press-Enterprise in Riverside, executive editor Frank
Pine said.

In Seattle, more than a dozen media outlets have agreed to participate,
said Greg Hanscom, editor-in-chief of nonprofit Crosscut Public Media.
The Seattle Times and station KING-TV will participate.

Outlets say they will share content in hopes the collaboration inspires
residents and policymakers to take a hard look at solutions.

The issue has come to a head in San Francisco, where it’s common to see
people sleeping in doorways or huddled in transit stations.

The founder of a technology startup said in an open letter to Mayor Ed
Lee recently that he “shouldn’t have to see the pain, struggle, and
despair of homeless people” on his way to work.

Lee told city workers in March to clear out several hundred tents that
had overtaken areas around Division Street, a thoroughfare that divides
two rapidly developing neighborhoods, the South of Market and Mission
districts. Workers found used needles, human waste and tons of trash.
 460x (5) <https://mgtvkron.files.wordpress.com/2016/06/460x-52.jpg>

An initiative on the fall ballot would allow authorities to tear down
encampments after giving residents 24 hours’ notice and offering shelter.

Homelessness increasingly dominates news meetings, making it an easy
decision to participate in the project, said Holly Kernan, executive
editor for news at Northern California public broadcasting station KQED.

She has received calls from people secretly living out of their cars,
too ashamed to share their stories. Their message is: “I want you to
know it’s not just drunk, mentally ill people who are living on the
streets,” Kernan said.

The Chronicle’s Cooper said reporters will analyze what it might cost to
house everyone who needs a place to live or provide mental health
treatment to people who might not want it. She said reaction has been
positive but that some homeless advocates fear the scrutiny will
unfairly target people for being poor.

“San Francisco is a progressive and caring city, and I think some
people, in the absence of knowing what to do, choose to look the other
way for fear of not being seen as compassionate,” Cooper said. “It’s not
compassionate for a city to look the other way.”

Dr. Damon Francis, interim director of Alameda County’s Health Care for
the Homeless Program, said he hopes coverage will explore the
“tremendous diversity” of people without homes and the forces behind
modern homelessness.

“It’s really very hard to solve with local budgets, and I think that’s
the real challenge of local journalism,” he said. “We do need those
federal dollars back to change these rental markets.”

An estimated 3,500 people sleep on the streets of San Francisco each
night, with thousands more in shelters, cars, motels or with friends and
family.

One of them is Rasheedah Mahir, a 35-year-old bicycle mechanic who makes
quesadillas by hand on a gas burner set up on the sidewalk in the
Mission District.

Mahir has been on the streets for four months, since getting evicted
from an apartment where she lived for years.

“I don’t know,” she said about media blitz. “The homeless. I mean, the
issue is forever.”

Top News
Sponsored By:


      Oakland residents fearful after double homicide

An escalation in violence, including the double homicide of two childhood…

 
Powered By
<http://i.jsrdn.com/i/1.gif?r=s1kh&k=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&fwd=http%3A%2F%2Fdistroscale.com>



Share this:

  * Click to email (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/kron4-teams-up-with-media-outlets-for-san-francisco-homeless-project/?share=email&nb=1>
  * More <#>
*

  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/kron4-teams-up-with-media-outlets-for-san-francisco-homeless-project/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/kron4-teams-up-with-media-outlets-for-san-francisco-homeless-project/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  *
  * Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/kron4-teams-up-with-media-outlets-for-san-francisco-homeless-project/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/kron4-teams-up-with-media-outlets-for-san-francisco-homeless-project/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  *
*


        Related Posts

vlcsnap-2016-11-29-21h37m33s69
<http://kron4.com/2016/11/29/police-activity-reported-at-the-metreon-in-san-francisco/>



  VIDEO: 1 detained, handgun recovered after police activity at the
  Metreon in San Francisco
  <http://kron4.com/2016/11/29/police-activity-reported-at-the-metreon-in-san-francisco/>

Courtesy: San Francisco-Marin Food Bank
<http://kron4.com/2016/11/12/sf-marin-food-bank-seeking-turkey-donations-for-thanksgiving/>



  VIDEO: SF-Marin Food Bank seeking turkey donations for Thanksgiving
  <http://kron4.com/2016/11/12/sf-marin-food-bank-seeking-turkey-donations-for-thanksgiving/>

fullhouse4
<http://kron4.com/2016/12/02/tvs-full-house-home-is-staying-in-the-tanner-family-cast-members-seen-gathering-there-today/>



  TV’s ‘Full House’ home is staying in the Tanner family, cast members
  seen gathering there today
  <http://kron4.com/2016/12/02/tvs-full-house-home-is-staying-in-the-tanner-family-cast-members-seen-gathering-there-today/>

vlcsnap-2016-11-29-21h36m31s240
<http://kron4.com/2016/11/29/reports-of-industrial-accident-at-cirque-du-soleil-in-san-francisco/>



  VIDEO: Technician dies in industrial accident at Cirque du Soleil in
  San Francisco
  <http://kron4.com/2016/11/29/reports-of-industrial-accident-at-cirque-du-soleil-in-san-francisco/>

Advertisement

« Previous Story
<http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/san-francisco-hate-crime-cases-police-seek-public-assistance/>
— Next Story »
<http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/redwood-city-firefighter-hurt-extinguishing-condo-fire/>

  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
by Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Sponsored Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
You May Like
Home Chef
<https://www.homechef.com/skip-the-store?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=cpc_clicks&utm_campaign=tab.30.1&voucher=TB30FREE&utm_content=%24%7Bcity%3Acapitalized%7D%24%3A+This+Meal+Service+is+Cheaper+Than+Your+Local+Store-http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F9478e09fee5e45ed1216b9ddcc24cc80.png&utm_term=mediageneral-newskron4>Stanford:
This Meal Service is Cheaper Than Your Local StoreHome Chef
<https://www.homechef.com/skip-the-store?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=cpc_clicks&utm_campaign=tab.30.1&voucher=TB30FREE&utm_content=%24%7Bcity%3Acapitalized%7D%24%3A+This+Meal+Service+is+Cheaper+Than+Your+Local+Store-http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F9478e09fee5e45ed1216b9ddcc24cc80.png&utm_term=mediageneral-newskron4>
Undo
MIT Review | Elysium Health
<https://www.technologyreview.com/s/534636/the-anti-aging-pill/?utm_source=taboolaTechR&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=3NewCategoryHeadlines&utm_content=PaidContent&utm_term=&GA=attribution>Science
Fiction, Minus the Fiction: A New Theory of Aging from BostonMIT Review
| Elysium Health
<https://www.technologyreview.com/s/534636/the-anti-aging-pill/?utm_source=taboolaTechR&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=3NewCategoryHeadlines&utm_content=PaidContent&utm_term=&GA=attribution>
Undo
Trend Chaser
<http://www.trend-chaser.com/entertainment/happy-days-then-now/?dmc=a6a1&utm_source=tb&utm_medium=mediageneral-newskron4-tb&utm_term=%27Erin%27+From+Happy+Days+Looks+Like+Now+Is+Insane-https%3A%2F%2Fconsole.brax-cdn.com%2Fcreatives%2Fb86bbc0b-1fab-4ae3-9b34-fef78c1a7488%2Ferinm_happy_fc557df0f0212bfef5ab54015becdee2.600x500.png&utm_content=1401795797373458297&utm_campaign=420260-tb>'Erin'
From Happy Days Looks Like Now Is InsaneTrend Chaser
<http://www.trend-chaser.com/entertainment/happy-days-then-now/?dmc=a6a1&utm_source=tb&utm_medium=mediageneral-newskron4-tb&utm_term=%27Erin%27+From+Happy+Days+Looks+Like+Now+Is+Insane-https%3A%2F%2Fconsole.brax-cdn.com%2Fcreatives%2Fb86bbc0b-1fab-4ae3-9b34-fef78c1a7488%2Ferinm_happy_fc557df0f0212bfef5ab54015becdee2.600x500.png&utm_content=1401795797373458297&utm_campaign=420260-tb>
Undo
Microsoft
<https://ad.atdmt.com/c/go;p=11087208933386;a=11087208936115;ev.a=1;idfa=;idfa_lat=;aaid=;aaid_lat=;cache=?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>See
if your data strategy is ahead of the curve.Microsoft
<https://ad.atdmt.com/c/go;p=11087208933386;a=11087208936115;ev.a=1;idfa=;idfa_lat=;aaid=;aaid_lat=;cache=?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>
Undo
Scanguard Protection
<http://track.globaltechadvice.com/aec7ff68-efa6-4de4-8532-7a3f78f6e6aa?campaign=SG_TABOOLA_US_RON&source=mediageneral-newskron4&image=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F5583f16eb0d97343e1af10a8e63a56d0.jpg&header=Use+This+Trick+Every+Time+You+Turn+On+Your+PC%E2%80%A6.&ad=2>Use
This Trick Every Time You Turn On Your PC….Scanguard Protection
<http://track.globaltechadvice.com/aec7ff68-efa6-4de4-8532-7a3f78f6e6aa?campaign=SG_TABOOLA_US_RON&source=mediageneral-newskron4&image=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F5583f16eb0d97343e1af10a8e63a56d0.jpg&header=Use+This+Trick+Every+Time+You+Turn+On+Your+PC%E2%80%A6.&ad=2>
Undo
Definition
<http://definition.org/waltons-family-happened/?utm_source=Taboola&utm_medium=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_content=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F14b48556cc6b2980fb091a38158870dd.jpg&utm_campaign=DEF_US_D_Taboola_D33890>What
Erin From “The Waltons” Looks Like Now is InsaneDefinition
<http://definition.org/waltons-family-happened/?utm_source=Taboola&utm_medium=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_content=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F14b48556cc6b2980fb091a38158870dd.jpg&utm_campaign=DEF_US_D_Taboola_D33890>
Undo
Show Comments

Advertisement


  2016 Holiday Gift Guide

  *
    Hatchimals is Gabe Slate's top kids tech toy for 2016.
    <http://kron4.com/2016/12/01/2016-holiday-gift-guide-top-25-hot-tech-toys-for-kids/>



      Holiday Gift Guide: Top 25 hot tech toys for kids
      <http://kron4.com/2016/12/01/2016-holiday-gift-guide-top-25-hot-tech-toys-for-kids/>

  *
    178260FE046C47178C0B7AA3EB490F98
    <http://kron4.com/2016/01/01/tech-trends-2016-tech-predictions-include-new-apple-gadgets-virtual-reality/>



      Tech Trends: 2016 tech predictions
      <http://kron4.com/2016/01/01/tech-trends-2016-tech-predictions-include-new-apple-gadgets-virtual-reality/>

  *
    1-Apple-Watch-
    <http://kron4.com/2015/12/30/tech-trends-best-of-tech-gadgets-2015/>


      Tech Trends: Best of tech gadgets 2015
      <http://kron4.com/2015/12/30/tech-trends-best-of-tech-gadgets-2015/>

  *
    drone post 2
    <http://kron4.com/2015/12/17/tech-trends-what-you-need-to-know-when-choosing-a-drone-as-a-holiday-gift/>



      Tech Trends: Choosing a drone as a holiday gift
      <http://kron4.com/2015/12/17/tech-trends-what-you-need-to-know-when-choosing-a-drone-as-a-holiday-gift/>


  Trending on KRON4.com


  More Bay Area News

  *
    donna-kellogg
    <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/ghost-ship-fire-victims-talks-to-kron4/>


      “Ghost Ship” fire victim’s ex-boyfriend talks to KRON4
      <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/ghost-ship-fire-victims-talks-to-kron4/>

  *
    memorial_3
    <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/memorial-near-warehouse-for-oakland-fire-victims/>



      Memorial near warehouse for Oakland fire victims
      <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/memorial-near-warehouse-for-oakland-fire-victims/>

  *
    noel-gallo
    <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/video-oakland-city-councilman-speaks-about-deadly-warehouse-fire/>



      VIDEO: Oakland city councilman speaks about deadly warehouse fire
      <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/video-oakland-city-councilman-speaks-about-deadly-warehouse-fire/>

  *
    460x-18
    <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/criminal-investigation-underway-in-oakland-warehouse-fire/>



      Criminal investigation underway in Oakland warehouse fire
      <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/criminal-investigation-underway-in-oakland-warehouse-fire/>


  KRON Resource Links

KRON Links <http://kron4.com/category/news/news-links/> *KRON LINKS*
<http://kron4.com/category/news/news-links/> as mentioned on KRON News
KRON Weather <http://kron4.com/category/weather/> *Bay Area Weather*
<http://kron4.com/category/weather/>
KRON Report <http://kron4.com/contact-us/> *Report It!*
<http://kron4.com/contact-us/> Submit a tip to KRON
KRON 4 App Get KRON 4 App [*iPhone/iPad*
<https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/kron-4/id472672814?mt=8>] [*Android*
<https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.linmedia.newstouch.ksnw>]


<http://kron4.com/category/advertise-with-kron/>

Advertisement

Advertisement

Advertisement


    KRON4.com <http://kron4.com/>

© Copyright 2000 - 2016 Young Broadcasting of San Francisco, Inc. A
Media General Company.

Powered by WordPress.com VIP
<https://vip.wordpress.com/?utm_source=vip_powered_wpcom&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=VIP%20Footer%20Credit>


      Sections

  * News <http://kron4.com/category/news/>
  * San Francisco Bay Area Weather <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>
  * Traffic <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
  * Sports <http://kron4.com/category/sports/>
  * Features <http://kron4.com/category/features/>


      Station

  * Contact Us <http://kron4.com/contact-us/>
  * Television Schedule <http://kron4.com/television-schedule/>
  * Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KRON4>
  * Twitter <https://twitter.com/kron4news>


      Business

  * Terms of Use <http://kron4.com/terms-of-use/>
  * FCC Public File <https://publicfiles.fcc.gov/tv-profile/kron-tv>
  * EEO Report
    <https://publicfiles.fcc.gov/tv-profile/kron-tv/equal-employment-opportunity-records/additional-documents/eeo-public-file-reports/f7008eea-d138-0cca-830a-8cfa91a32037/>
  * Children’s Programming
    <https://publicfiles.fcc.gov/tv-profile/kron-tv/programs-list/>
  * Closed Captioning Contact Information
    <http://kron4.com/closed-captioning-contact-information/>
  * Media General <http://mediageneral.com/>


      Follow

  * Subscribe via RSS <http://kron4.com/feed/>
  * Follow us on Twitter <https://twitter.com/kron4news>
  * Join us on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KRON4>
  * Follow us on YouTube <https://www.youtube.com/user/kron4tv>
  * Follow us on Google+ <https://plus.google.com/+kron4tv>
  * Follow us on Pinterest <https://pinterest.com/kron4tv>
  * Follow us on Instagram <https://instagram.com/kron4tv>

<#>
LIVE STREAM:
KRON4 News at 8 PM
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

:)
