Laney Tower <http://thelaneytower.com/>

  * Twitter

    <http://twitter.com/laneytower>Follow us
  * RSS

    <http://thelaneytower.com/feed/>Subscribe to RSS

LATEST PRINT EDITION
November 23, 2016

  * News

    <http://thelaneytower.com/category/news/>
  * Features

    <http://thelaneytower.com/category/features/>
  * Opinion

    <http://thelaneytower.com/category/opinion/>
  * Arts

    <http://thelaneytower.com/category/arts/>
  * Sports

    <http://thelaneytower.com/category/sports/>
  * SF Homeless Project

    <http://thelaneytower.com/category/sf-homeless-project/>
  * Advertising

    <http://thelaneytower.com/advertise/>
  * Journalism Classes

    <http://thelaneytower.com/journalism-classes/>


  From Pipe City to Tent City
  <http://thelaneytower.com/2016/06/30/from-pipe-city-to-tent-city/>

June 30, 2016 12:05 AM


      A century-long history of homelessness in Alameda County puts
      economic inequity at the heart of modern displacement

by Alice Feller <mailto:alicefeller967@gmail.com>


        PIPE CITY

In September 1930, an impromptu city sprang up at the foot of 19th
Avenue in Oakland, where 200 homeless men found shelter in lengths of
unused concrete sewer pipe. The men called their town “Misery City,” but
to the rest of the world it was “Pipe City.”

The “mayor” of Pipe City was Dutch Jensen, an out-of-work construction
crew boss. He ran the town on three simple rules: “No drinking, no
slovenliness, no talking politics.”

To become a citizen, you needed to be jobless and homeless, but
definitely not helpless. No begging was tolerated, no government
assistance allowed.

Jensen negotiated with the American Concrete and Steel Pipe Company f or
the rights to camp out in the company’s surplus pipe. He organized the
community into sections and sent the residents out each day to forage
for food. The day’s harvest was made into a communal dinner each night.

Any leftovers were kept in a tightly guarded storeroom—Frank Sewell was
appointed “police chief.”

Both Oakland and San Francisco created public works projects to help
bolster employment. The largest of these projects was the construction
of the Bay Bridge, which began in 1933 and created more than 800 jobs
for unemployed construction workers.

Pipe City was voluntarily closed by the residents in the spring of 1933.
Upon leaving, they cleaned up behind themselves and returned the area to
its original condition.


        HOMELESSNESS IN 2016

Homelessness as we know it today is a new phenomenon. Until recently
Americans did not live on the streets. Episodes of homelessness occurred
during economic cataclysms, such as the crash of 1873 and the Great
Depression. But when those hard times ended, the unemployed found work
and shelter.

Screenshot from 2016-07-03 19:31:43
<http://thelaneytower.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/Screenshot-from-2016-07-03-193143-1.png>

A few blocks from Oakland’s Laney College, a man reads the newspaper,
keeping his cart of possessions nearby. For citizens without permanent
housing, the parks, benches, and facilities the campus and surrounding
area have to offer provide necessary, if brief, comfort.

Policies initiated in the 1960’s and 1970’s produced major changes that
created a new brand of homelessness—a deeply marginalized population
which lives on the streets even in times of general prosperity.


        PANHANDLING TO LIVE

Kyle sits on Telegraph Avenue with a cardboard sign that reads, “Just
need weed.” He looks up from the sidewalk, flashes a winning smile, and
says, “But money will do.”

Kyle has been living on the streets for 20 years, ever since he turned
18 and left his foster family. As far as he knows, his own family is
still in Arizona, but he lost track of them long ago.

A cold wind blows off the Bay; Kyle is wrapped in a pale yellow blanket
smudged with dirt. Under that, he wears an oversize army surplus jacket
with the hood up. Only his hands and face are exposed to the frigid air.

He is missing all his lower teeth on one side, as if at some point he
took a calamitous punch in the mouth. His fingers bear crude tattoos and
the ground-in dirt covers him like an extra layer of skin.

Kyle can’t remember the year he should have graduated from high school,
or even which decade he attended high school. No one was paying much
attention to his schoolwork, not his teachers, not his foster parents,
not Kyle himself.

When he turned 18, he aged out of foster care and suddenly was on his
own without a job. Asked how he’s supported himself these past 20 years,
he nods at the upturned hat on the sidewalk in front of him. Currently,
it holds one quarter.


        MANUFACTURING JOBS

Not so long ago it would have been easy for an unskilled worker like
Kyle to find a job to supply his basic needs, but things have changed.

Screenshot from 2016-07-03 19:44:25
<http://thelaneytower.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/Screenshot-from-2016-07-03-194425-1.png>

Since 1980, close to 8 million manufacturing jobs have been lost,
largely to globalization. The steep decline starting in 2001 coincides
with China’s entry into the World Trade Organization (WTO). Currency
manipulation and automation have contributed to the loss in U.S.
manufacturing as well.

Since 1980, nearly seven million manufacturing jobs were lost to
globalization, off-shoring and automation. These were good jobs with
benefits. Workers laid off usually ended up with temporary or part-time
work, if they found work at all. More than five million households fell
into poverty.

And yet, ironically, the unemployment figures have been relatively
reassuring. The Bureau of Labor Statistics surveys households
(automatically leaving out anyone living on the streets) and tallies
those working and those looking for work.

Any sort of job, no matter how minimal, counts as employment. Those who
have given up looking for work are not counted. Consequently, the
tectonic shift of industrial jobs away from the U.S. never registered as
a rise in unemployment, which as of today stands officially at 4.7 percent.

Robert E. Scott of the Economic Policy Institute writes that while NAFTA
(North American Free Trade Agreement) and KORUS (U.S.-Korea Free Trade
Agreement) together took away almost one million manufacturing jobs, the
trade agreement with China eliminated 3.2 million jobs.

President Bill Clinton had assured the public that China’s entry into
the WTO would create a “win-win” situation.

Vast numbers of American jobs would be created “with the new access to
the Chinese market.”

Screenshot from 2016-07-03 19:36:41
<http://thelaneytower.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/Screenshot-from-2016-07-03-193641-1.png>

The trade deficit in manufactured goods rose steadily from 1900 to 2015,
interrupted only by the recession that began in 2008. The trade deficit
is the mirror image of the job loss in manufacturing.

Instead, a precipitous job loss (see figure above) and a steep rise in
the trade deficit (see figure right) resulted from this new trade pact.

Currency manipulation by foreign countries has further aggravated the
balance of trade and contributed to job loss. By depressing the value of
its own currency, the intervening country makes its exports cost less
and the target country’s exports cost more.

Thus, through currency manipulation alone the intervening country gains
an advantage in trade and puts the target country at a disadvantage. The
U.S. has been targeted most egregiously by China, Denmark, Hong Kong,
Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Switzerland and Taiwan (in rank order).


        LOWER-INCOME HOUSING

Over the same time period that eight million factory jobs were
liquidated and five million households fell into poverty, one million
units of low-cost housing were lost due to changes in public policy.

Urban renewal, with generous funding through HUD, destroyed much of the
last housing available to the poor. Up until 1974, federal programs such
as Section 8 housing had given direct assistance to low-income households.

Then, President Gerald Ford signed into law the 1974 Housing and
Community Development Act and everything changed. Funds were given as
block grants to the states on a competitive basis, to be administered as
the localities saw fit.

Screenshot from 2016-07-03 19:32:38
<http://thelaneytower.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/Screenshot-from-2016-07-03-193238.png>

The figures above and to the right show what happened. Urban renewal was
the new priority for HUD funding and the bulk of all federal money for
housing ended up in the pockets of property owners, largely through tax
advantages.


        URBAN RENEWAL

The city of Oakland provides a good example of urban renewal. In 1999,
when Jerry Brown was elected Mayor of Oakland, the city had been losing
its population.

Brown promised to bring 10,000 new residents to the city—his famous “10K
plan.” He aimed to remove the 24 residential hotels in downtown Oakland
and replace them with market rate and affordable housing,

Terry Messman, writing for Street Spirit newspaper, called Brown’s plan
a Trojan Horse. “The hidden part of this so-called ‘10K’ plan,” he
wrote, “is to drive away all the social problems and poor people that
might make downtown Oakland an unappealing place to live for your
average, upwardly mobile dot-commer.”

Screenshot from 2016-07-03 19:34:31
<http://thelaneytower.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/Screenshot-from-2016-07-03-193431.png>

Homeowners and owners of rental properties and second homes receive the
lion’s share of federal housing support. This comes through tax
preferences given to property owners. The tax code thus favors owners to
renters.

Fifteen years later, the Sutter Hotel, one of the last remaining SRO’s
(Single Room Occupancy) in downtown Oakland, is about to be sold to
developers.

The East Bay Express reports that the new owners will convert the
building into another boutique hotel or possibly a hostel for tourists.

Dion Ross, who describes himself as a “project implementation
strategist,” recently took Stephan Yang of Yang Capital on a tour of the
102-room hotel. Ross was hired by Sutter Hotel owner Raj Singh to show
the building to interested investors without attracting too much attention.

Another downtown SRO is the Hotel Travelers. Investor Danny Haber plans
to rent out the rooms to tourists at more than double their current
rate. The refurbished building will feature a rooftop beer garden.


        HOMELESS IN BERKELEY

Kyle is enthusiastic about the accommodations in Berkeley. “Every
Saturday morning they feed all the people in the park so I usually hang
out and get tons of food,” he says. Although he claims that he eats all
the time Kyle is bone-thin.

He has no idea where he will sleep tonight. “I usually pick random
spots—makes it safer. Like, this is ‘chill’ you know, and I just go there.”

He avoids the homeless shelters because “you get most of the crazies
there—it always smells like feet—and I wake up with my stuff stolen.”

“It’s a scientifically proven fact,” he says, “that anyone on the street
has post-traumatic stress. And anyone who doesn’t have it should be
considered not right in the head. But I know how to roll with it.”


      Entitlement programs such as AFDC and Section 8 Housing are a
      vital safety net to help keep the vulnerable from falling into the
      despair of homelessness.

A pair of young women in distressed blue jeans and soft leather boots
appear at this point, offering clean needles and condoms. Kyle waves
them away.

This seems like a good sign. As his sign says: “Just need weed.”

But then his speech begins to slur. His sentences stop making sense.

He has trouble keeping his head up and it becomes clear that he’s
nodding out. It seems that what Kyle is struggling with will need a much
better, more permanent solution.


        SOCIAL SAFETY NET: LOST

In 1996 Clinton signed into law what was billed as welfare reform. Aid
to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) was replaced by block grants
to the states to be distributed as they saw fit, with no guarantees of
even minimal support for children and families in poverty.

The philosophy behind welfare reform was that welfare was bad for
recipients because it fostered dependence. These beliefs were fueled by
a deep anger among voters who imagined they were being taken for a ride
by Cadillac-driving “welfare queens.”

Under the new law families slipped into deeper poverty, often losing
their homes in the process.


        MEDICAL TREATMENT

The state mental hospitals began closing down nationwide in the Sixties,
earlier in California. By 1994 nearly half a million patients had been
discharged.

This movement, known as “deinstitutionalization,” came about through a
political alliance of the far right and far left. On the radical left,
it was fashionable in some circles to argue that there was no such thing
as mental illness, that what looked like insanity was actually the sane
response to an insane society.

Those who had more knowledge of mental illness hoped that the newly
developed antipsychotic drugs such as Thorazine would enable the former
mental patients to function normally outside the hospital.


      “It’s a scientifically proven fact that anyone on the street has
      post-traumatic stress. And anyone who doesn’t have it should be
      considered not right in the head.”

And the so-called Mental Health Bar treated the issue as one of civil
rights, with the goal being liberation of the “inmates.” These lawyers
didn’t stay in touch with their clients after they left the hospitals.
Nor were they moved to liberate them when they became inmates once
again, this time in the prison system.

On the political right were fiscal conservatives whose goal was to save
money. Shutting down the state hospitals saved vast sums.

Theoretically, these funds would go toward community mental health. But
few of the taxpayers on the right or the left followed up on this plan
and community mental health foundered for lack of funding.

Patients were discharged to nursing homes or to the care of their
families, neither of which were equipped to handle them. As many as half
of all former state hospital patients became homeless within months
after leaving the hospital and many others ended up in jail.

E. Fuller Torrey writes, “In 1955 there was one psychiatric bed for
every 300 Americans. By 2005 there was one psychiatric bed for every
3,000 Americans.

“Even worse,” he adds, “the majority of the existing beds were filled
with court-ordered (forensic) cases and thus not really available.”

The reason for this difficulty is the IMD (Institutions for Mental
Diseases) exclusion, also known as the “16-bed rule.” This little-known
coda was added in 1965 when Congress amended the Social Security Act to
create Medicaid.

The IMD exclusion forbids the use of Medicaid to pay for patient care in
“institutions for mental diseases” (IMD’s), defined as any hospital or
residential facility with 16 or more beds and doctors on staff with
psychiatric training.

This rule puts the financial burden of psychiatric hospital care
entirely on the state, unlike any other kind of hospital care, much of
which is paid for by the federal government through Medicaid (MediCal in
California).

The IMD exclusion accounts for the scarcity of psychiatric beds at the
community level and for the lack of residential substance abuse
treatment facilities for adults.

Theoretically, the mentally ill homeless person can get a MediCal card
and make use of opportunities for outpatient psychiatric care and
substance abuse treatment.

But even the high-functioning and stably housed person often has
difficulty navigating today’s mental health system and getting
outpatient care through MediCal.

As a practical matter, a person suffering both from mental illness and
unstable housing can find this task impossible; in the worst cases, the
solution can end up being self-medication with alcohol and street drugs.

Torrey writes that we have come full circle from the beginning of the
20th century, when Dorothea Dix campaigned to rescue the insane from
prisons where they languished, often under inhumane conditions. Due to
her work, the mentally ill were rescued from prisons to be cared for in
hospitals.

But now that the state hospitals have closed down, the prisons once
again house most of those suffering from severe mental illness. Prisons
are now our largest providers of mental health care.

Just as prisons have become the de facto providers of institutional
mental health care, the police are now the first-line providers of
mental health care on the streets.

Officer Jeff Shannon of the Berkeley Police Department estimates that
nationwide 20 percent of service calls are for mental health crises
while that figure is more like 30 percent in Berkeley, nearly all for
homeless people with mental illness.


      “This is a voter issue. If the community doesn’t want people
      languishing in jail with mental illness, fund the mental health
      system so that we can do our job.”

Shannon runs the Crisis Intervention Team (CIT) training program for his
fellow officers in Berkeley and Oakland. CIT involves learning about
mental illness and the use of de-escalation techniques to cool down a
situation before it gets out of control.

“We’ve become the mental health first line of defense,” he says. “And a
lot of officers resent that.” Nevertheless, Shannon says, they do an
admirable job in a role they never signed up for.

Like Torrey, he laments the lack of psychiatric hospital beds. Alameda
County has one psychiatric hospital, the John George Psychiatric
Hospital. But the county has a high number of 5150’s—individuals placed
on 72-hour involuntary hold— and about 80 admissions a day for only 69 beds.

“They’re overwhelmed,” Shannon says. “There’s always pressure to release
people. You have a glass that holds eight ounces of water and you take a
pitcher and pour 16 ounces of water into it. That’s what we’re looking at.

“I think the mental health system has been more or less destroyed over
the last 50 years as a result of deinstitutionalization.

“We have 10 percent of the hospital beds that we had back then,” he
says. “The funding never came through so you have these people that are
very sick and they end up in jail.

“This is a voter issue. If the community doesn’t want people languishing
in jail with mental illness, fund the mental health system so that we
can do our job.”


        THE SOLUTIONS


          Mental Health and Substance Abuse Treatment

Mental illness and substance abuse need to be recognized as treatable
conditions rather than permanent disabilities. The community mental
health system should be funded as originally intended.

The IMD exclusion should be discontinued so that people who need
residential substance abuse treatment and psychiatric care can be
treated appropriately. Residential treatment is especially important for
the homeless.


          Public Works Projects

Scott of the Economic Policy Institute suggests that we rebuild our
crumbling infrastructure. According to the American Society of Civil
Engineers, we will need to invest $3.6 trillion by 2020 in order to
rebuild our aging roads, ports, airports and other public facilities.

This massive public works project, Scott writes, “would create up to
three million new jobs and boost the gross domestic product by $400
billion through debt-financed investments of an additional $250 billion
per year in infrastructure for the next seven years.”


          Address Currency Manipulation

The EPI estimates that action to address currency manipulation could
reduce the trade deficit by $200 to $500 billion and create 2.3 to 5.8
million new jobs, 40 percent of which would be in manufacturing.

C. Fred Bergsten and Joseph E. Gagnon of the Peterson Institute for
International Economics offer four possible approaches including
bringing a case against the currency manipulators in the WTO and
currency intervention to end the effects of the intervening countries’
actions.


          Rethink Future Trade Agreements

Scott writes, “Most workers would be hurt if trade with low-wage
countries were increased by the TPP; most of the benefits would go to
those at the top of the income distribution.”

It will be corporations that benefit, he argues, who have “few if any
organic ties to the U.S. economy—most have outsourced a large share of
production jobs to other countries.”

The greatest beneficiaries, he says, will be those who own stock in
these corporations. And the more stock you own, the more you stand to
benefit. He concludes that the TPP “will only serve to worsen U.S.
income inequality.”


          Restore Welfare and Housing Assistance:

The block grant system should be ended, while restoring guaranteed
assistance for the poorest of our citizens. Entitlement programs such as
AFDC and Section 8 Housing are a vital safety net to help keep the
vulnerable from falling into the despair of homelessness.

 

/Alice Feller is the Assignments Editor for the Laney Tower. Contact her
at alicefeller967@gmail.com./


      You may also like:

  * Laney students win Gene Haas Scholarship awards
    <http://thelaneytower.com/2016/05/26/laney-students-win-gene-haas-scholarship-awards/>
  * Upcoming events: May 21 to July 15
    <http://thelaneytower.com/2016/05/19/upcoming-events-may-21-to-july-15/>
  * No place to lay their heads
    <http://thelaneytower.com/2016/06/30/no-place-to-lay-their-heads/>
  * Preventative surgery saves Laney student
    <http://thelaneytower.com/2016/05/26/preventative-surgery-saves-laney-student/>
  * Fall class cuts decimate Asian American Studies, Sociology
    departments <http://thelaneytower.com/2016/05/19/saving-ethnic-studies/>
  * Wages withheld <http://thelaneytower.com/2016/05/19/wages-withheld/>
  * Peralta students, professors stand in solidarity with SF State
    hunger…
    <http://thelaneytower.com/2016/05/19/peralta-students-professors-stand-in-solidarity-with-sf-state-hunger-strike/>

Share with friends

  *
     

    /

    /
  *
    9

    /

    /
  *
     

    /

    /
  *
     

    /

    /
  *
     

    /

    /
  *
     

    /

    /
  *
     

    /

    /

  *
  *
  *

Author: <http://thelaneytower.com/author/krnava/>Alice Feller
<http://thelaneytower.com/byline/alice-feller/>


  Laney Tower <http://thelaneytower.com/>

  * Staff Roster <http://thelaneytower.com/staff-roster/>
  * Journalism Classes <http://thelaneytower.com/journalism-classes/>
  * Galleries <http://photos.thelaneytower.com/>
  * Calender <http://thelaneytower.com/events/month/>

  * Print Advertising Rates <http://thelaneytower.com/advertise/>

*search:*

© Copyright 2016 — Laney Tower <http://thelaneytower.com/>. All Rights
Reserved
