  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * The Cannifornian

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

The Mercury News

<http://www.mercurynews.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local

    <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * The Cannifornian

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>


        Los Angeles homeless proposal: $1.2 billion…
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/30/los-angeles-homeless-proposal-1-2-billion-measure-on-ballot/>



Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/30/los-angeles-homeless-proposal-1-2-billion-measure-on-ballot/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/30/los-angeles-homeless-proposal-1-2-billion-measure-on-ballot/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/30/los-angeles-homeless-proposal-1-2-billion-measure-on-ballot/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/30/los-angeles-homeless-proposal-1-2-billion-measure-on-ballot/#print>
*

<#>

Trending:

  * Sherri Papini case
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/sherri-papini-consultant-asked-to-find-another-missing-california-mom/>

  * 49ers should’ve kept Smith
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/purdy-the-kap-vs-alex-argument-is-settled-and-its-become-obvious-the-49ers-made-the-wrong-choice/>

  * Kim K. to divorce?
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/is-kim-kardashian-plotting-to-divorce-kanye-west/>

  * Pitt vs. Jolie
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/brad-pitt-moves-to-seal-documents-in-angelina-jolie-custody-dispute/>

  * After cold snap, rain
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/bay-area-weather-after-cold-snap-rain-on-the-way/>

  * Bay Area poverty
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/more-bay-area-residents-struggling-than-poverty-statistics-indicate/>



            News <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>California News
<http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>


  Los Angeles homeless proposal: $1.2 billion measure on ballot


Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/30/los-angeles-homeless-proposal-1-2-billion-measure-on-ballot/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/30/los-angeles-homeless-proposal-1-2-billion-measure-on-ballot/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/30/los-angeles-homeless-proposal-1-2-billion-measure-on-ballot/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/30/los-angeles-homeless-proposal-1-2-billion-measure-on-ballot/#print>
*

By Associated Press
<http://www.mercurynews.com/author/associated-press/> and Robert Jablon
<http://www.mercurynews.com/author/robert-jablon/>	
PUBLISHED: June 30, 2016 at 5:04 am | UPDATED: August 11, 2016 at 10:59 pm

LOS ANGELES (AP) — The Los Angeles City Council voted Wednesday to place
a $1.2 billion bond measure before voters to raise money to fight
homelessness.

The council voted 14-0 to put a measure on the November ballot to
provide a decade’s worth of money for shelters, permanent housing, drug
and alcohol treatment and mental health services to the homeless. It
also would provide affordable housing to poor people in danger of
becoming homeless, ranging from the elderly to battered women and their
children.

Los Angeles is struggling to deal with a surging homeless population,
now estimated at 27,000.

“Every night in Los Angeles, tens of thousands of Angelenos — men,
women, children, veterans, and seniors — sleep on our streets,” Mayor
Eric Garcetti said in a statement praising the council decision. “This
crisis is pervasive, it endangers public health and stifles economic
prosperity.”

“As we continue working on regional solutions with state and county
officials, we must seize this moment — and we’ll need everyone’s help,”
the mayor said.

The cost of repaying the bonds would fall on property owners, who on
average would pay an extra $40 to $80 a year in taxes, according to city
estimates.

An alternative funding method would be to create a parcel tax on
property improvements that could raise around $90 million a year over 10
years.

The City Council postponed, until at least Friday, a decision on whether
to put that measure on the November ballot. The council hasn’t decided
which funding method to pursue and would have until Aug. 12 to pull one
or the other off the ballot.

Both measures will face opposition from apartment building owners, said
Dan Feller, president of the Los Angeles-based Apartment Owners
Association of California.

“We’re taxed to death already,” he told City News Service. “The city of
Los Angeles already puts a cap on our income with our rent control,
harasses us with property inspections, and now they want to put more tax
on us.”

City officials have a 10-year plan to battle homelessness at a cost of
nearly $2 billion but haven’t nailed down the funding. In May, the City
Council approved a budget plan that set aside $138 million to provide
services and 600 units of housing.

However, part of that money would come from charging new fees to
developers that haven’t been approved.

The council’s decision Wednesday came as dozens of media outlets in Los
Angeles, San Francisco and Seattle were saturating online, TV and print
publications with stories about homelessness.

In San Francisco, several city supervisors are trying to place a measure
on the November ballot that would create a 1.5 percent payroll tax on
technology companies to pay for homeless and housing services.

The ordinance reflects a deep divide in a city where thousands of people
have marched on city hall to halt evictions and decry spiraling rents
they say is due to the growing number of newcomers to San Francisco.

Supervisors have until Aug. 2 to get the ordinance through the 11-member
board.

Alex Tourk, a spokesman with technology advocacy group sf.citi, called
the proposal a “disincentive to job growth” and the “antithesis of
thoughtful policy development.”

“Instead of penalizing success,” he wrote in an email, “legislators
should be engaging many of these revolutionary companies who are
changing the future of work as we know it to work with government on
solutions to complex problems such as homelessness.”

——

Associated Press reporter Janie Har in San Francisco contributed to this
report.

Review: Samsung Fixes the TV Remote
<http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>

Sponsored Content


        Review: Samsung Fixes the TV Remote
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>


By Samsung
<http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>

Geoffrey A. Fowler tests Samsung’s 2016 TVs, which have one smart
clicker to control all our cable boxes, disc players, video streamers
and apps


      Associated Press
<http://www.mercurynews.com/author/associated-press/>


Robert Jablon <http://www.mercurynews.com/author/robert-jablon/>

Subscribe Today! All Access Digital offer for just 99 cents!
<https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dsssubscribe.aspx>
 
You Might Also Like

  *
    Discover the future of buying power as you explore new server
    solutions from Intel and Microsoft Discover the future of buying
    power as you explore new… Intel Servers Rock
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/310638932;138208410;x>
  *
    Up To 50,000 Bonus Miles: Best Travel Credit Cards Up To 50,000
    Bonus Miles: Best Travel Credit Cards GET.com
    <https://www.get.com/10-best-airline-credit-cards/?ad=outbrain_airline_miles&utm_medium=cpc&utm_source=outbrain_248358&utm_campaign=outbrain_airline_miles_70153484&oclid=fd505afbdbd5c696c55603d82252890e>

  *
    Fascinating Story How Gwen Got Back On ‘The Voice’ Fascinating Story
    How Gwen Got Back On ‘The Voice’ Fans Fans
    <http://www.fansfans.com/saying-bye-miley-gwen-stefani-prepares-make-return-voice/>


  *
    39 Cats With Insanely Cool Fur Patterns! 39 Cats With Insanely Cool
    Fur Patterns! Pawsome
    <http://pawsome.topix.com/slideshow/17565?utm_source=outbrain&utm_campaign=17565-com&tpx_term=PBU3CDP7LPM3F3HO&cvar=t1:i-square-3JG8P0II654A0MK7&utm_medium=248358>

  *
    Tips on How To Become a Manager Tips on How To Become a Manager CAL
    STATE MONTEREY BAY
    <https://mba.csumb.edu/blog/tips-on-how-to-become-a-manager?utm_source=Outbrain&utm_medium=Online%20Media&utm_campaign=CSUMB_Native>

  *
    If you aren’t sure if you’re experiencing PMS or the early signs of
    pregnancy, head to our blog: If you aren’t sure if you’re
    experiencing PMS or the… The Stork®
    <https://www.storkotc.com/pregnant?utm_source=outbrain> 

  *
    Jim Carrey accused of giving late ex three STDs Jim Carrey accused
    of giving late ex three STDs MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/09/23/jim-carrey-accused-of-giving-late-ex-three-stds/>

  *
    Pig to greet travelers at San Francisco airport Pig to greet
    travelers at San Francisco airport MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/05/pig-to-greet-travelers-at-san-francisco-airport/>

  *
    Ask Amy: Woman frets over beau’s texts Ask Amy: Woman frets over
    beau’s texts MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/10/04/ask-amy-woman-frets-over-beaus-texts/>


Recommended by<http://www.outbrain.com/what-is/default/en>

Sign up for our newsletters!

Subscribe <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
Follow Us

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>


    Most Popular

 1. Oakland fire aftermath: Evictions as artists’ worst fears come true

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/evictions-in-ghost-ships-wake-artists-worst-fears-coming-true/>

 2. Kim Kardashian is plotting to divorce Kanye West, one report says

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/is-kim-kardashian-plotting-to-divorce-kanye-west/>

 3. San Jose: Firefighters knock down abandoned home fire, suspect squatter

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-jose-firefighters-knock-down-abandoned-home-fire-suspect-squatter/>

 4. Oakland warehouse fire: Officials release names of 9 more victims

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/oakland-warehouse-fire-search-for-victims-85-percent-complete-death-toll-still-36/>

 5. Purdy: It’s now obvious the 49ers should have kept Smith, not
    Kaepernick

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/purdy-the-kap-vs-alex-argument-is-settled-and-its-become-obvious-the-49ers-made-the-wrong-choice/>

 6. Eddy Lepp free after 10-year sentence for growing marijuana

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/cannabis-convict-eddy-lepp-free-after-long-prison-term/>

 7. Sherri Papini ‘consultant’ asked to find another missing California mom

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/sherri-papini-consultant-asked-to-find-another-missing-california-mom/>

 8. Oakland: Artists, restaurant at odds over Salt Lick warehouse
    following deadly Ghost Ship blaze

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-artists-restaurant-at-odds-over-salt-lick-warehouse/>


OFF
ON

Aa
Aa
Aa
Aa

02:0202:02

  *

    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news...

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Responders talk about Oakland warehouse fire

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31711792&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news...

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>



        More videos:

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news conference
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Responders talk about Oakland warehouse fire
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31711792&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news conference
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Responders talk about Oakland warehouse fire
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31711792&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news conference
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Responders talk about Oakland warehouse fire
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31711792&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>



    More in News

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/flashing-crosswalks-bright-led-lights-being-installed-to-make-streets-safer/>

    Flashing crosswalks, bright LED lights being installed to make
    streets safer
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/flashing-crosswalks-bright-led-lights-being-installed-to-make-streets-safer/>



              Flashing crosswalks, bright LED lights being installed to
              make streets safer
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/flashing-crosswalks-bright-led-lights-being-installed-to-make-streets-safer/>


    December 07, 2016, 10:07 pm

    The streets in District 6 are becoming safer for bicyclists and
    pedestrians; Lincoln Avenue in Willow Glen is getting new LED street
    lights and several other areas are getting pedestrian-activated
    crosswalk lights. New decorative bike racks are also being added in
    Willow Glen and on The Alameda.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-fire-search-completed-while-cause-remains-a-mystery/>

    Five days after the most deadly fire in Oakland history ravaged an
    artists' labyrinthine lair in the Fruitvale District, killing 36
    people trapped in the smoke and flames as the top floor and roof
    gave way, firefighters wrapped up their search Wednesday, leaving
    federal and local investigators on scene to figure out what caused
    the so-called Ghost Ship to suddenly go up in flames.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-fire-search-completed-while-cause-remains-a-mystery/>



              Oakland fire search completed while cause remains a
              mystery
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-fire-search-completed-while-cause-remains-a-mystery/>


    December 07, 2016, 9:33 pm

    Five days after the most deadly fire in Oakland history ravaged an
    artists’ labyrinthine lair in the Fruitvale District, killing 36
    people trapped in the smoke and flames as the top floor and roof
    gave way, firefighters wrapped up their search Wednesday, leaving
    federal and local investigators on scene to figure out what caused
    the so-called Ghost Ship to suddenly...

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-mateo-fatal-fire-ruled-arson/>

    A three-alarm fire at a house where a woman was found dead last
    month was intentionally set, police said Wednesday.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-mateo-fatal-fire-ruled-arson/>



              San Mateo: Fatal fire ruled arson
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-mateo-fatal-fire-ruled-arson/>


    December 07, 2016, 7:04 pm

    A three-alarm fire at a house where a woman was found dead last
    month was intentionally set, police said Wednesday.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/berkeleys-pioneering-cafe-rouge-closing-after-20-years/>

    The restaurant-butcher shop combination was a Bay Area first.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/berkeleys-pioneering-cafe-rouge-closing-after-20-years/>



              Berkeley’s pioneering Cafe Rouge closing after 20 years
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/berkeleys-pioneering-cafe-rouge-closing-after-20-years/>


    December 07, 2016, 5:17 pm

    The restaurant-butcher shop combination was a Bay Area first.

  * Member Services <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
  * News Alerts <https://digioh.com/BANG/general?source=TakeAction>

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>

  * Subscribe

    <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx?pid=22>

    <#>
      o Manage Your Subscription <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
      o All Access Subscriptions <http://www.bayareanewsaccess.com/>
      o Today’s e-Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
      o Newsletter Sign-Up <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
      o Mobile Apps <http://www.mercurynews.com/mobile/>
  * Contact Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/contact-us/>

    <#>
      o Corrections <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/corrections/>
      o Reprints <http://www.mercurynews.com/reprints/>
      o Archive Search <http://www.mercurynews.com/archive-search/>
      o Lottery <http://www.mercurynews.com/lottery/>
  * Classifieds

    <http://marketplace.bayareanewsgroup.com/marketplace/>

    <#>
      o Autos <http://www.norcaldrives.com/>
      o Jobs <http://www.mercurynews.com/jobs/>
      o Real Estate <http://realestate.mercurynews.com/>
      o Place an Obituary
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
      o Place a Legal Ad
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/legals/index.html>
  * Advertise With Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/advertise/>

    <#>
      o Today’s Ads <http://ads.mercurynews.com/>
      o Weekly Ads <http://www.mercurynews.com/weekly-ads/>
      o Local Guide <http://mylocal.mercurynews.com/>
      o Fry’s Ad
        <http://newspaperads.mercurynews.com/FSI/tiles.aspx?advid=200177&loc=53824>
      o Public Notices <http://capublicnotice.com/>

  * © 2016 Digital First Media <http://www.digitalfirstmedia.com/>
  * Site Map <http://www.mercurynews.com/sitemap.xml>
  * Copyright <http://www.mercurynews.com/copyright/>
  * Privacy Policy <http://www.mercurynews.com/privacy-policy/>
  * Arbitration
    <http://local.digitalfirstmedia.com/common/dfm/arbitration.pdf>
  * Powered by WordPress.com VIP <https://vip.wordpress.com/>
  * Bay Area News Group

    <http://www.bayareanewsgroup.com/>

Quantcast
Quantcast


      Email This Article

Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel

<#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

:)
