  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * TheCannifornian.com

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

The Mercury News

<http://www.mercurynews.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local

    <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * TheCannifornian.com

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>


        Loving: Homelessness can be ended; Santa Clara…
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/23/loving-homelessness-can-be-ended-santa-clara-county-has-the-formula/>



Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/23/loving-homelessness-can-be-ended-santa-clara-county-has-the-formula/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/23/loving-homelessness-can-be-ended-santa-clara-county-has-the-formula/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/23/loving-homelessness-can-be-ended-santa-clara-county-has-the-formula/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/23/loving-homelessness-can-be-ended-santa-clara-county-has-the-formula/#print>
*

<#>

Trending:

  * Taylor Swift photo leaked
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/14/taylor-swift-sealed-photo-hits-the-internet/>

  * Dakota pipeline rally in S.F.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/you-cant-drink-oil-dakota-pipeline-rally-draws-hundreds-in-san-francisco/>

  * DWTS: The semifinals
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/dancing-with-the-stars-perfect-10s-dont-help-terra-jole/>

  * Why Kaepernick couldn’t vote
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/kaepernick-didnt-vote-because-he-couldnt-vote/>

  * Weird cat obsessions
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/macys-store-receipts-drove-cat-crazy/>

  * Ask Amy
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/ask-amy-how-can-i-get-over-grief-over-my-miscarriage/>



News <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>


  Loving: Homelessness can be ended; Santa Clara County has the formula


Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/23/loving-homelessness-can-be-ended-santa-clara-county-has-the-formula/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/23/loving-homelessness-can-be-ended-santa-clara-county-has-the-formula/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/23/loving-homelessness-can-be-ended-santa-clara-county-has-the-formula/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/23/loving-homelessness-can-be-ended-santa-clara-county-has-the-formula/#print>
*

By Jennifer Loving <http://www.mercurynews.com/author/jennifer-loving/>
and Special to the Mercury News
<http://www.mercurynews.com/author/special-to-the-mercury-news/>	
June 23, 2016 at 5:58 pm

We’ve long believed homelessness is a charitable cause, and there is
nothing inherently wrong with that.

When faced with a plethora of social issues, there are some that seem
solvable and some that do not. For decades we thought of homelessness in
a worthy but unsolvable category. If we could ease human suffering, we
thought we were doing the best we could.

But several years ago we, like many other communities, embraced Housing
First, a best practice solution. It promotes permanent supportive
housing, which means including health care and other services
individuals need for stable lives. Our local data currently shows an 84
percent success rate for formerly homeless people maintaining this
housing after one year. These are the same men and women who had been on
our streets for decades and often considered “too hard to house”.

Concurrently, we’ve finally understood the costs of our local
homelessness crisis. When we commissioned the study Home Not Found, we
hypothesized that our community was similar to many others in severely
overspending on public services and still not ending a person’s
homelessness. Still, the findings surprised us.

We now know we were spending over $500 million a year, every year,
managing homelessness in our community with no end in sight.

It’s not hard to see how this is true. The longer people are outside,
the more vulnerable they become. They show up more often at emergency
rooms, end up hospitalized for conditions that could be controlled with
regular care, get arrested arrested for nuisance charges and need an
array of social services.

Most importantly, Home Not Found demonstrated that all homelessness
isn’t created equal. In fact, out of 104,206 people who experienced
homelessness in our six year study, 61 percent of the $500 million spent
each year was consumed by just 10 percent of the people in the study.

Those 4,500 individuals each had average costs of $67,000 a year.
Further, more than half of the total costs are spent for health crises,
which are usually exacerbated by time on the streets.

There is no worse place to have a homelessness crisis than Silicon
Valley, with our expensive housing market, ridiculously low vacancy
rates and overwhelming competition for every single vacant unit.
Creating housing to specifically address homelessness takes a
determination our nation historically has been unable to muster at scale.

There is a fundamental injustice in this because homeless men, women and
children make up the most politically powerless class of people in
America. Locally, we’ve done a reasonable job of advocating for housing
for just about everyone other than them.

Now, for the first time in local history we are taking a hard look at
solving our homelessness crisis. In the 2015 Community Plan to End
Homelessness, we adopted a set of strategies aimed at preventing and
ending homelessness. Two of those most critical strategies are expanding
rapid rehousing programs for people who become homeless and creating new
housing opportunities targeted to homeless men and women.

On Tuesday, the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors took a bold move
by unanimously approving placement of a $950 million affordable housing
bond on the November ballot. This bond is aimed at targeting the very
people who not only need our help the most but whose suffering is
placing the greatest burden on our public safety net — and on taxpayers.

This is the most decisive move to end homelessness of any local
jurisdiction in our nation.

We know the causes of homelessness and we know the solution is a home.
We know how much homelessness costs and we can identify those who are
most in need. And most critically, we know ending homelessness isn’t
just for the homeless person, it’s for our community and our taxpayers.

Seizing this opportunity will once again make Silicon Valley an example
to the nation.

Jennifer Loving is the executive director of Destination: Home, a
program of The Health Trust. She wrote this for the Mercury News.

10 Cars With More Horsepower Than You'll Ever Need
<http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=YWcCAhdcJArLEPA&ntv_fr>

Sponsored Content


        10 Cars With More Horsepower Than You'll Ever Need
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=YWcCAhdcJArLEPA&ntv_fr>


By Nitto Tire
<http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=YWcCAhdcJArLEPA&ntv_fr>

It's a great time to stop and look at some of the vehicles that make
America great.


Jennifer Loving <http://www.mercurynews.com/author/jennifer-loving/>


      Special to the Mercury News
<http://www.mercurynews.com/author/special-to-the-mercury-news/>

Subscribe Today! All Access Digital offer for just 99 cents!
<https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dsssubscribe.aspx>
 
You Might Also Like

  *
    Enter Name, Wait 9 Seconds, Brace Yourself Enter Name, Wait 9
    Seconds, Brace Yourself TruthFinder
    <http://tracking.truthfinder.com/?a=163&oc=27&c=303&dip=&s1=TopPerformingWLDesktop>

  *
    Why Stylish Men Choose Their Outfit Shoe-First Why Stylish Men
    Choose Their Outfit Shoe-First Stacy Adams on GQ
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/312190192;141122776;u>
  *
    Jaw Dropping Perfectly Timed Photos Jaw Dropping Perfectly Timed
    Photos Auto Overload
    <http://autooverload.com/best-perfectly-timed-photos-online-captured/?utm_source=outbrain&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=obperfectlytimed1e>

  *
    Health Headlines | Getting Rid Of Spider Veins Without Surgery?
    Health Headlines | Getting Rid Of Spider Veins Without… Gundry MD
    <http://gundrymd.com/cmd.php?ad=804277&ad=804277> 

  *
    The High Price of Braces and How to Avoid It The High Price of
    Braces and How to Avoid It SmileDirectClub
    <https://smiledirectclub.com/landing/how-much-do-braces-cost?utm_medium=discovery&utm_content=ad_title&utm_source=outbrain&utm_campaign=Girl-With-Aligner-A-Mobile&utm_term=origsrcid>

  *
    This Company Is Changing How Men's Shirts Are Sold This Company Is
    Changing How Men's Shirts Are Sold Proper Cloth
    <https://propercloth.com/get-started/create-a-size/?utm_source=outbrain&utm_medium=59689077&utm_campaign=Proper+Cloth&utm_term=248358>

  *
    Completely Unsettling Historical Photos That Expose The Past
    Completely Unsettling Historical Photos That Expose… Direct Expose
    <http://track.bidprotech.com/lp?cid=ff80808156504b5d0156509009590081&ssid=ff808081507a211001507b1156700062&ext_param1=ouins&ext_param3=0013f13fe0be3bb032d21c48c465926bb8&ext_pubid=248358&ext_param5=S_OS_DE_US_D_Historical_v14_3010_safe>

  *
    She Dropped Jaws In Her Seductive Dress At The CMT Music Awards She
    Dropped Jaws In Her Seductive Dress At The CMT… StyleBistro
    <http://www.stylebistro.com/Best+and+Worst+Dressed+at+the+2015+CMT+Music+Awards?utm_source=outb&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=Outb-SB-US-Desktop-Specials-2015-CMT-Awards>


  *
    Fatal crash: San Jose boy, 17, was driving BMW near Portola Valley
    Fatal crash: San Jose boy, 17, was driving BMW near… MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/09/09/san-martin-man-killed-in-solo-car-crash-near-portola-valley/>

  *
    Octomom is no more, says Natalie Suleman Octomom is no more, says
    Natalie Suleman MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/09/15/octomom-is-no-more-says-natalie-suleman/>

  *
    San Jose real estate agent sentenced to 6 months in jail for
    scamming family, banks San Jose real estate agent sentenced to 6
    months in… MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/10/12/san-jose-real-estate-agent-sentenced-to-6-months-in-jail-for-scamming-family-banks/>

  *
    College Hotline: Pac-12 all-injury team and latest power ratings
    College Hotline: Pac-12 all-injury team and latest… MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/college-hotline-pac-12-all-injury-team-and-latest-power-ratings/>


Recommended by<http://www.outbrain.com/what-is/default/en>
blog comments powered by Disqus <http://disqus.com/>

Sign up for our newsletters!

Subscribe <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
Follow Us

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>


    Most Popular

 1. Taylor Swift sealed photo hits the Internet

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/14/taylor-swift-sealed-photo-hits-the-internet/>

 2. Promising life cut short in Saratoga crash

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/promising-life-cut-short-in-saratoga-crash/>

 3. San Jose: Teacher allegedly threatened student with deportation
    under Trump

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/san-jose-teacher-allegedly-threatens-student-with-deportation-under-trump/>

 4. Warriors film room: Examining the defensive issues

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/warriors-film-room-breaking-down-golden-states-early-season-defensive-issues/>

 5. San Jose: Man slain near Lake Cunningham identified

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/san-jose-police-identify-man-killed-near-lake-cunningham-park/>

 6. Megyn Kelly says it’s important people learn of Trump’s actions

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/megyn-kelly-says-its-important-people-learn-of-trumps-actions/>

 7. Tacolicious opens its San Jose/Santana Row outpost

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/tacolicious-opens-its-san-josesantana-row-outpost/>

 8. San Jose: New allegations surface in Donald Trump riot lawsuit

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/san-jose-new-allegations-surface-in-donald-trump-riot-lawsuit/>


OFF
ON

Aa
Aa
Aa
Aa

00:0302:05

  *

    Palo Alto: 'Grandma's' basement holds lure for new startups

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31630060&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Bay Area jazz icon Larry Vuckovich celebrates 80th birthday

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31634819&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Hands Around Lake Merritt in Oakland, California

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31631109&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Palo Alto: 'Grandma's' basement holds lure for new startups

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31630060&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Bay Area jazz icon Larry Vuckovich celebrates 80th birthday

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31634819&playlistId=18873>



        More videos:

  *
    Bay Area jazz icon Larry Vuckovich celebrates 80th birthday
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31634819&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Hands Around Lake Merritt in Oakland, California
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31631109&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Palo Alto: 'Grandma's' basement holds lure for new startups
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31630060&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Bay Area jazz icon Larry Vuckovich celebrates 80th birthday
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31634819&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Hands Around Lake Merritt in Oakland, California
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31631109&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Palo Alto: 'Grandma's' basement holds lure for new startups
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31630060&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Bay Area jazz icon Larry Vuckovich celebrates 80th birthday
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31634819&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Hands Around Lake Merritt in Oakland, California
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31631109&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Palo Alto: 'Grandma's' basement holds lure for new startups
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31630060&playlistId=18873>



    More in Opinion

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/editorial-kaepernick-sets-horrible-example-by-refusing-to-vote/>

    Kapernick's refusal to register to vote sets poor example
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/editorial-kaepernick-sets-horrible-example-by-refusing-to-vote/>



              Editorial: Kaepernick’s refusal to vote sets horrible
              example
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/editorial-kaepernick-sets-horrible-example-by-refusing-to-vote/>


    November 15, 2016, 6:05 pm

    Kapernick’s refusal to register to vote sets poor example
    8

    <#comments>

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/denver-should-move-cautiously-on-social-pot-consumption/>

    Here we go again, standing on the precipice of another first: Denver
    voters gave the green light for consumption of bring-your-own
    cannabis on the premises of private businesses.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/denver-should-move-cautiously-on-social-pot-consumption/>



              Denver should move forward cautiously on social pot
              consumption
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/denver-should-move-cautiously-on-social-pot-consumption/>


    November 15, 2016, 3:46 pm

    Here we go again, standing on the precipice of another first: Denver
    voters gave the green light for consumption of bring-your-own
    cannabis on the premises of private businesses.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/davis-yes-there-is-a-business-model-for-saving-the-world/>

    Yes, there is a business model for cutting-edge technology to
    deliver lifesaving solutions in very low-income settings where
    governments have weak systems and market forces create insufficient
    incentive.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/davis-yes-there-is-a-business-model-for-saving-the-world/>



              Davis: Yes, there is a business model for saving the world
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/davis-yes-there-is-a-business-model-for-saving-the-world/>


    November 15, 2016, 10:32 am

    Yes, there is a business model for cutting-edge technology to
    deliver lifesaving solutions in very low-income settings where
    governments have weak systems and market forces create insufficient
    incentive.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/editorial-trump-shouldnt-act-as-if-he-has-a-mandate/>

    Winners always claim mandates, no matter how thin their claim, and
    opponents shrug it off. But Republicans might need a reality check here.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/editorial-trump-shouldnt-act-as-if-he-has-a-mandate/>



              Editorial: Trump shouldn’t act as if he has a mandate
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/editorial-trump-shouldnt-act-as-if-he-has-a-mandate/>


    November 15, 2016, 10:26 am

    Winners always claim mandates, no matter how thin their claim, and
    opponents shrug it off. But Republicans might need a reality check
    here.
    21

    <#comments>

  * Member Services <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
  * News Alerts <https://digioh.com/BANG/general?source=TakeAction>

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>

  * Subscribe

    <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx?pid=22>

    <#>
      o Manage Your Subscription <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
      o All Access Subscriptions <http://www.bayareanewsaccess.com/>
      o Today’s e-Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
      o Newsletter Sign-Up <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
      o Mobile Apps <http://www.mercurynews.com/mobile/>
  * Contact Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/contact-us/>

    <#>
      o Corrections <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/corrections/>
      o Reprints <http://www.mercurynews.com/reprints/>
      o Archive Search <http://www.mercurynews.com/archive-search/>
      o Lottery <http://www.mercurynews.com/lottery/>
  * Classifieds

    <http://marketplace.bayareanewsgroup.com/marketplace/>

    <#>
      o Autos <http://www.norcaldrives.com/>
      o Jobs <http://www.mercurynews.com/jobs/>
      o Real Estate <http://realestate.mercurynews.com/>
      o Place an Obituary
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
      o Place a Legal Ad
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/legals/index.html>
  * Advertise With Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/advertise/>

    <#>
      o Today’s Ads <http://ads.mercurynews.com/>
      o Weekly Ads <http://www.mercurynews.com/weekly-ads/>
      o Local Guide <http://mylocal.mercurynews.com/>
      o Fry’s Ad
        <http://newspaperads.mercurynews.com/FSI/tiles.aspx?advid=200177&loc=53824>
      o Public Notices <http://capublicnotice.com/>

  * © 2016 Digital First Media <http://www.digitalfirstmedia.com/>
  * Site Map <http://www.mercurynews.com/sitemap.xml>
  * Copyright <http://www.mercurynews.com/copyright/>
  * Privacy Policy <http://www.mercurynews.com/privacy-policy/>
  * Powered by WordPress.com VIP <https://vip.wordpress.com/>
  * Bay Area News Group

    <http://www.bayareanewsgroup.com/>

Quantcast


      Email This Article

Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel

<#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

:)
