//
Marina Times <http://www.marinatimes.com/>
Celebrating our 32nd Year!
Join our e-mail list for news & special offers


    Subscribe to Marina Times mailing list for latest news

* indicates required
Email Address *

First Name

Last Name

Close

<#>

//

  * Current Issue

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/>
  * News

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/>
      o Captain’s View

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/captains-view>
      o Community

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/community>
      o Community News

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/community-news>
      o Crime Beat

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/crime-beat>
      o Election

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/election>
      o News Briefs

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news-briefs>
      o Police Blotter

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/police-blotter>
      o Safety Tips

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/safety-tips>
      o Sightlines

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sightlines>
  * Street Beat

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/>
      o Finds

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/finds>
      o Marina-Cow Hollow Insider

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/marina-cow-hollow-insider>
      o Neighborhood Nugget

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/neighborhood-nugget>
      o Northsider

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/northsider>
      o On and Off Chestnut

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/on-and-off-chestnut>
      o Over the Hill

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/over-the-hill>
      o Profiles

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/profiles>
      o Scenes

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/scenes>
      o Union Insider

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/union-insider>
      o Union Street Scoop

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/union-street-scoop>
  * Features

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/>
      o Back Story

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/back-story>
      o Bellingham by the Bay

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/bellingham-by-the-bay>
      o Editor's Note

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/editors-note>
      o Interview

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/interview>
      o North Beach Journal

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/north-beach-journal>
      o Reynolds Rap

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/reynolds-rap>
      o The Right Fit

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-right-fit>
      o Times Travelers

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/times-travelers>
  * Calendar

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/events/>
  * A & E

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/>
      o @Nite

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/nite>
      o Book Notes

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/book-notes>
      o Humor

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/humor>
      o Movie Reviews

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/movie-reviews>
      o Poems

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/poems>
      o Program Notes

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/program-notes>
      o Television

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/television>
      o The Best of Books

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-best-of-books>
  * Dining

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/>
      o Appetites and Afterthoughts

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/appetites-and-afterthoughts>
      o Dishing

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dishing>
      o Hot Spots

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/hot-spots>
      o Hungry Palate

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/hungry-palet>
      o In the Spirit

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/in-the-spirit>
      o La Deliziosa Vita

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/la-deliziosa-vita>
      o New & Notable

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/new-notable>
      o Recipes

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/recipes>
      o Reviews

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/reviews>
      o Short Bites

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/short-bites>
      o The Kitchenless Cook

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-kitchenless-cook>
      o The Tablehopper

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-tablehopper>
      o Wine World

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/wine-world>
  * Travel/Sports

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/>
      o Coastal Commuter

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/coastal-commuter>
      o On the Bay

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/on-the-bay>
      o Sports Corner

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports-corner>
      o Travel with your Dog

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/travel-with-your-dog>
      o Weekend Traveler

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/weekend-traveler>
  * At Home

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/>
      o Around the House

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/around-the-house>
      o Caring For Our Kids

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/caring-for-our-kids>
      o Family Matters

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/family-matters>
      o Home & Garden

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/home-garden>
      o Style

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/style>
      o Wellness

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/wellness>
  * Business

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/>
      o Common Knowledge

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/common-knowledge>
      o Dollars & Sense

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dollars-sense>
      o EarthTalk

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/earthtalk>
      o Finance

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/finance>
      o Less Taxing Matters

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/less-taxing-matters>
      o Science

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/science>
      o Socially Responsible

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/socially-responsible>
      o Technology

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/technology>
      o The Wild Wild Web

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-wild-wild-web>
  * Real Estate

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/>
      o Dreamhouse Showcase

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dreamhouse-showcase>
      o Market Maker

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/market-maker>
      o Market Report

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/market-report>
      o Property Lines

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/property-lines>
      o Real Estate Investor

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate-investor>
      o Real Estate Today

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate-today>
      o The Mystery Housebuyer

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/mystery-housebuyer>
  * Pets

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/>
      o Cathouse

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/cathouse>
      o Jasmine Blue's Tails of the Dog Park

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/jasmine-blues-tails-of-the-dog-park>

      o Mews Briefs

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/mews-briefs>
      o Pit of the Month

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pit-of-the-month>
      o Political Animal

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/political-animal>
      o Sky’s Buys

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/skys-buys>
      o The Adventures of Skylar Grey

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-adventures-of-skylar-grey>
      o Yapping

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/yapping>

Print
Reynolds Rap


  Some of the homeless people you pass have been in your shoes

by Susan Dyer Reynolds
July 2016
[photo by Ken Walton]
photo by Ken Walton

SF Homeless Project

/As I write this letter in my office on Market near Second Street, a
“nut-case” is screaming his head off beneath my window … when I walk to
my office each morning on Market between Sansome and Montgomery … I have
to step over half-naked people and their body waste … Then we have a
nearly naked man who “lives” on Market Street in front of See’s Candies
at Sansome. Stretched across the sidewalk, pedestrians have to hold
their noses and walk around him … When I need to go near Sixth and
Market streets it becomes worse. Drug dealing in broad daylight. Hell on
Earth … If this city survives this era, future generations will look
back and be horrified at what these people have done to San Francisco./
— Excerpt from a letter to the San Francisco Business Times

A few months ago I came across a letter to the San Francisco Business
Times. The author, an understandably frustrated San Francisco resident
named Richard Kales, went on at length about the perils of working
downtown with its throngs of drug addicted, mentally ill, and sometimes
violent denizens. Kales, it appeared, was yet another recent transplant
complaining about the city’s less fortunate citizens with that trademark
lack of empathy. There have been quite a few. Take, for example, Justin
Keller, a tech entrepreneur who made headlines last February after
ranting on his personal blog that the homeless problem is the worst it
has ever been in the three years he’s lived here. Keller was angry that
the “riff raff” disrupted his parents’ visit from Santa Barbara and a
trip to the movies with his girlfriend. “The wealthy working people have
earned their right to live in the city. They went out, got an education,
work hard, and earned it … I shouldn’t have to see the pain, struggle,
and despair of homeless people to and from my way to work,” Keller opined.

As I made my way through the letter to the Business Times, the tone was
markedly similar. Along with a mutual disdain for stepping over
indigents, Kales was unhappy with the large number suffering from mental
illness. The majority of the homeless are, he said, “individuals who
want to live on someone else’s nickel” and the balance are “mentally ill
and have no loony bin to be put in.” He also asserted that homeless
advocates “turned a world-class city into a dump” and took umbrage with
the district attorney for saying he didn’t believe San Franciscans
wanted to prosecute people who didn’t have a place to stay. Yes, Kales
said, he did want them prosecuted: “Anything to end this situation is
fine with me.” It wasn’t until I saw the name of the district attorney —
Terence Hallinan — that I realized this wasn’t a recent missive. In
fact, it had been written in 2001. For those who have lived in San
Francisco many years or many generations, the fact that the Kales and
Keller letters, written 15 years apart, are nearly identical comes as no
surprise. For newer residents, however, it may indeed come as a shock
that the homeless problem didn’t start when they moved here.


      FROM LACK OF EMPATHY TO KILLING WITH KINDNESS

Despite city lawmakers throwing millions of dollars at homelessness,
nothing has worked. While residents and business owners grow angrier by
the day over their declining quality of life and livelihood, homeless
advocates often go to the other extreme, handing out shiny new tents and
filing lawsuits against the city when it clears the resulting
shantytowns (it violates their civil rights). These same people have
also fought “tough love” solutions for years, including requiring the
homeless to carry identification cards so their cases may be tracked (it
violates their privacy) and giving them one-way bus tickets back to
where they came from (another violation of their civil rights). But
those working on the front lines say leaving the homeless on the streets
is not only dangerous, it’s inhumane.

Alan Byard says in his four decades as a patrol special police officer,
he’s noticed not only a dramatic increase in the homeless population but
also in the number with psychiatric issues. “Many have serious mental
health problems and some are so incoherent when I speak to them that
they can’t comprehend or carry on a conversation when I ask them if they
need city services,” Byard said. He estimates that 80 percent of the
homeless he encounters have alcohol, drug, or mental health issues. “I
think it is a cruel thing to leave them to fend for themselves when it
is so obvious that they need help,” Byard said. “Sometimes you need to
take an individual off the street, put them in a proper facility, and
give them the care and help needed, even against their desires.”

That, of course, would mean bringing back psychiatric hospitals for the
sickest homeless, which is a hard sell to the bleeding hearts handing
out tents and to the politicians afraid of alienating their liberal
constituents.


      WE’VE BEEN HERE BEFORE

The vast majority of mental patients in the United States were released
from hospitals and into communities under a policy now considered a
total failure. Many in the psychiatric field during the 1950s and 1960s
who helped craft that policy blame, in particular, the overreliance on
tranquilizers as a cure-all. Politicians, pressured by the troubling
image and financial strain of state-run hospitals, were equally
culpable. In California, the number of patients reached a peak of 37,500
in 1959 under Governor Edmund G. Brown, fell to 22,000 in 1967 when
Ronald Reagan was in office, and continued to fall during the first
administration of Edmund G. Brown Jr.

The senior Brown later expressed regret. “They’ve gone far, too far, in
letting people out,” he told The New York Times. Then-director of the
National Institute of Mental Health Dr. Robert H. Felix, who was a major
player in the shift

to community release, also expressed remorse. “Many of those patients
who left the state hospitals never should have done so,” he said. “We
psychiatrists saw too much of the old snake pit, saw too many people who
shouldn’t have been there and we overreacted. The result is not what we
intended, and perhaps we didn’t ask the questions that should have been
asked when developing a new concept …”

Even though the epidemic of mental illness among the homeless is in our
faces every day, we have clearly learned nothing from our mistakes. Of
the five new hospitals under construction in San Francisco, not one has
a psychiatric bed requirement, while at current hospitals those beds
have declined precipitously. Until we realize that homelessness is not
one-size-fits-all and that mental illness is the largest component of
the problem, nothing will change. We also must learn to see the homeless
as unique individuals. While some fit the stereotypes proffered by Kales
and Keller, others are there because of circumstances far beyond their
control — and a few have even walked in the very shoes that now step
over them.


      A DOODLE NAMED KRAMER

Several years ago while walking my pit bull, Skylar, in Buena Vista
Park, I ran into an acquaintance with her Labradoodle and another doodle
I didn’t recognize. “I was coming out of a movie and there were these
kids trying to sell him because they needed to buy drugs,” she said.
“They were so blatant about it, but I was scared for the dog and figured
he might be stolen so I gave them twenty bucks.”

According to his tags, the dog’s name was Kramer. He was a goldendoodle
— not your typical street dog — and the phone number on the tag was
disconnected. At Animal Care and Control (ACC), we discovered that
Kramer was microchipped with an address in Golden Gate Heights, but
residents there said they weren’t missing a dog. I agreed to foster
Kramer through Rocket Dog Rescue, and after one adoption event he had a
wonderful new home. A week later I received a call from ACC saying they
had solved the mystery: Kramer’s owner, a homeless man, had been badly
beaten and, as my friend suspected, the dog was stolen. The man had been
in the hospital but came to the shelter looking for Kramer as soon as he
was released.

“He’s happy where he is,” I told the ACC officer. “I don’t want him
returned to some homeless man.”

“His owner is not who you think,” the officer said. “He used to own that
house listed on the microchip. He had a wife and a couple of kids. He
worked in high tech. Then the dotcom bubble burst, and he lost
everything — his wife, the kids, the house, the cars. Kramer is all he
has left.” Now I understood why a goldendoodle was homeless — because
his owner once had the fancy life to go along with the fancy dog. I
reluctantly called Kramer’s new adopters, who immediately lawyered up
and refused to surrender him. Just when it seemed a custody battle was
eminent, Kramer’s owner was hospitalized again. Just a few days later he
died from his injuries. “That poor man. So many people die on the
streets. It’s no place for dogs or humans,” said Rocket Dog founder Pali
Boucher, and she would know.

[Rocket Dog Rescue founder Pali Boucher was homeless half her life.
(photo: Jane Richey )]
Rocket Dog Rescue founder Pali Boucher was homeless half her life.
(photo: Jane Richey )

Born to a homeless, drug-addicted mother in San Francisco, Pali
remembers playing on Ocean Beach as a toddler while her mom slept off
another high. When Pali was 10, her mother died, leaving her to grow up
alone on the streets. She was addicted to drugs, in and out of jail, and
every one of her knuckles was broken fending off attackers. She also
contracted HIV. But a visit to the San Francisco SPCA changed her life.
Wandering the halls to escape the rain, she made friends with a
bloodhound baying mournfully from his kennel. She found herself visiting
him daily, and on one of those visits she discovered he was slated for
euthanasia. Pali faked an address and adopted the bloodhound, naming him
Lead Belly after the renowned blues musician. She almost lost Lead Belly
on another trip to jail, and that’s when she decided things had to
change. She asked for help, got sober, secured housing, and got Lead
Belly back. Since founding Rocket Dog Rescue in 2001, Pali and a
dedicated band of volunteers have saved thousands of dogs, and Pali has
been featured on two Animal Planet television specials, was recognized
for her work in the community by CNN Heroes, and received the Points of
Light Award for outstanding volunteerism.

Before Lead Belly’s love set her on the right path, the “wealthy working
people” likely stepped over Pali and witnessed her pain, struggle, and
despair. But my experience with Kramer and getting to know Pali has made
me see the nameless faces I pass every day in a much different light.

It also made me think about one of my mother’s favorite sayings: “There
but for the grace of God go I.”

Perhaps when Keller’s startup isn’t the next Apple or Google and he has
the luxury of moving back to Santa Barbara to live with his parents,
he’ll think about that.

How You Can Help: Volunteer or Donate


      Coalition on Homelessness

The coalition is looking for donations of everything from money to
bicycles to books. (cohsf.org/fun-ways-to-donate
<http://cohsf.org/fun-ways-to-donate>)


      Episcopal Community Services

Thirty-year-old organization offering job training, counseling,
education, and more to homeless people.
(ecs-sf.org/getinvolved/volunteer.html
<http://ecs-sf.org/getinvolved/volunteer.html>)


      HandUp

Direct giving that verifies and tracks donations. (handup.org
<http://handup.org/>)


      Lava Mae

San Francisco-based organization uses buses to provide mobile showers
and bathrooms to the homeless. (lavamae.org <http://lavamae.org/>)


      Miracle Messages

This San Francisco-based group makes videos of homeless people and uses
them to reconnect the homeless with their families. (miraclemessages.org
<http://miraclemessages.org/>)


      Project Homeless Connect

Puts homeless people in touch with services, such as housing
information, dental care, mental health services, SSI benefits, legal
advice, and more. (projecthomelessconnect.org/about/our-mission
<http://projecthomelessconnect.org/about/our-mission>)


      San Francisco 311

This app connects you with city services, and in the “other” section you
can find out who to contact when you need to report someone in need of
the city’s homeless services. (sf311.org/other-city-services
<http://sf311.org/other-city-services>)


      St. Anthony’s

Providing food, clothing, and connections to the city’s poor and
homeless. (stanthonysf.org <http://stanthonysf.org/>)


      St. Vincent de Paul Society of San Francisco

Every day, St. Vincent shelters, feeds, and supports hundreds of
homeless, and it also offers health and personal services (shower,
laundry, etc.).
(svdp-sf.org/what-we-do/msc-shelter
<http://svdp-sf.org/what-we-do/msc-shelter>)

  * Tags:
  * SF Homeless Project

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/tag/sf-homeless-project/>

Send to a Friend

Print


      Send *Some of the homeless people you pass have been in your
      shoes* to a friend

*Your Name*:

*From* (your email):

*To* (friend's email):

E-mail: susan@marinatimes.com <mailto:susan@marinatimes.com>	


      More Reynolds Rap »

      <http://www.marinatimes.com/?category_name=reynolds-rap>

  * The ‘me-me-me millionaires’ still not taking charitable chances

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/the-me-me-me-millionaires-still-not-taking-charitable-chances/>
  * Proposition SDR: Should meter maids run San Francisco?

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/proposition-sdr/>
  * Upscale comfort food

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/08/upscale-comfort-food/>
  * Grow up, Airbnb

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/07/grow-up-airbnb-youre-a-big-business-now-time-to-follow-the-rules/>
  * Paradise Cost

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/05/paradise-cost/>
  * You can’t be shot in the back if you’re charging forward

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/04/you-cant-be-shot-in-the-back-if-youre-charging-forward-2/>
  * My love/hate relationship with Uber

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/03/my-lovehate-relationship-with-uber/>
  * We built this city: Post-Super Bowl shantytowns show the city
    doesn’t know how

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/02/we-built-this-city-post-super-bowl-shantytowns-show-the-city-doesnt-know-how/>
  * A vote of disdain for Mayor Ed Lee: How the accidental mayor turned
    San Francisco into a playground for tax-skirting techies

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2015/11/a-vote-of-disdain-for-mayor-ed-lee-how-the-accidental-mayor-turned-the-city-into-a-playground-for-social-media-tech-players/>
  * Does the Board of Supervisors care more about protecting illegal
    immigrant felons than preventing another tragedy?

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2015/11/sanctuary-city-deja-vu-yet-again-does-the-board-of-supervisors-care-more-about-protecting-illegal-immigrant-felons-than-preventing-another-tragedy/>

  *


          News Briefs

      o Mayor Lee on Trump

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/11/mayor-lee-on-trump/>
      o Hate crime at Fort Mason

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/11/hate-crime-at-fort-mason/>
      o The crimes they are a-changin’

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/11/the-crimes-they-are-a-changin/>
      o Correction

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/correction/>
      o Farrell fine slashed

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/farrell-fine-slashed/>
      o $11 Million from feds for anti-congestion projects

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/11-million-from-feds-for-anti-congestion-projects/>

      o Fight over political money

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/fight-over-political-money/>
      o Polk, Van Ness construction underway

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/polk-van-ness-construction-underway/>

      o Real Foods loses lease battle, closes store on Fillmore

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/real-foods-loses-lease-battle-closes-store-on-fillmore/>

      o Crime Report

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/crime-report-2/>

<https://www.crunch.com/guest-passes/?d=5&utm_source=C%20-%20SF%20-%20Marina%20Times&utm_medium=DISP&utm_content=5D&utm_campaign=C%20-%20%20SF%20-%20%20DISP%20-%20%205D%20-%20%20Marina%20Times%20-%20%203.16>


  *


          Most Read

      o Spend the holidays in wine country

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/11/spend-the-holidays-in-wine-country/>

      o Fighting for San Francisco values under a Trump presidency

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/11/fighting-for-san-francisco-values-under-a-trump-presidency/>

      o Dinner after midnight

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/11/dinner-after-midnight/>
      o Hate crime at Fort Mason

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/11/hate-crime-at-fort-mason/>
      o My annual guide to gifts that give back

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/11/my-annual-guide-to-gifts-that-give-back/>

      o The power of the pun

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/11/the-power-of-the-pun/>
      o Two for the ballot

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/11/two-for-the-ballot/>
      o Fab Five gift-worthy cookbooks with local flavor

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/11/fab-five-gift-worthy-cookbooks-with-local-flavor/>



      Upcoming Events

more »

<http://www.marinatimes.com/events/>
Alexia Webster, Refugee Street Studio, Bulengo IDP camp, D. R. Congo,
2014–ongoing, digital archival print. Photos: Lexie Lee	Info »

<http://www.marinatimes.com/event/home-land-security/>
Photo: © the walt disney company	Info »

<http://www.marinatimes.com/event/wish-upon-a-star-the-art-of-pinocchio/>


        Home Land Security

Oct-Dec 5-18


        Wish Upon a Star: The Art of Pinocchio

May-Jan 18-9


      Articles by Author

  * Susan Dyer Reynolds

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/author/susan/>
  * Ernest Beyl

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/author/ernest/>
  * Bruce Bellingham

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/author/bruce/>
  * John Zipperer

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/author/john/>
  * more »

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/authors/>


      Download the Current Issue: December 2016

<http://www.marinatimes.com/wp-content/issue/current.pdf>

  * A & E <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/>
      o @Nite <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/nite/>
      o Book Notes <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/book-notes/>
      o Humor <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/humor/>
      o Movie Reviews
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/movie-reviews/>
      o Poems <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/poems/>
      o Program Notes
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/program-notes/>
      o Television <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/television/>
      o The Best of Books
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/the-best-of-books/>
  * At Home <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/>
      o Around the House
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/around-the-house/>
      o Caring For Our Kids
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/caring-for-our-kids/>
      o Family Matters
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/family-matters/>
      o Home & Garden
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/home-garden/>
      o Style <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/style/>
      o Wellness <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/wellness/>
  * Business <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/>
      o Common Knowledge
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/common-knowledge/>
      o Dollars & Sense
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/dollars-sense/>
      o EarthTalk <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/earthtalk/>
      o Finance <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/finance/>
      o Less Taxing Matters
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/less-taxing-matters/>
      o Science <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/science/>
      o Socially Responsible
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/socially-responsible/>

      o Technology
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/technology/>
      o The Wild Wild Web
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/the-wild-wild-web/>
  * Calendar <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/>
      o Arts & Culture
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/arts-culture/>
      o Child's Play
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/childs-play/>
      o Community Corner
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/community-corner/>
      o Creature Features
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/creature-features/>
      o Dance <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/dance/>
      o Film & Lectures
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/film-lectures/>
      o Free <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/free/>
      o Galas & Benefits
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/galas-benefits/>
      o Halloween <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/halloween/>
      o Holiday Happenings
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/holiday-happenings/>
      o Just for Fun
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/just-for-fun/>
      o Last Chance
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/last-chance/>
      o Major Events
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/major-events/>
      o Museums & Galleries
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/museums-galleries/>
      o Music <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/music/>
      o Nightlife <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/nightlife/>
      o Performances
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/performances/>
      o Potables & Edibles
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/potables-edibles/>
      o Science & Environment
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/science-environment/>
      o Sports & Health
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/sports-health/>
  * Commentary <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/>
      o Enter Stage Left
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/enter-stage-left/>
      o From our Assemblymember
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/from-our-assemblymember/>

      o Opinion <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/opinion/>
      o Supervisor's Report
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/supervisors-report/>

      o The In-Box
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/the-in-box/>
      o This Just In
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/this-just-in/>
      o Zippy <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/zippy/>
  * Dining <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/>
      o Appetites and Afterthoughts
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/appetites-and-afterthoughts/>

      o Dishing <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/dishing/>
      o Hot Spots <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/hot-spots/>
      o Hungry Palate
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/hungry-palet/>
      o In the Spirit
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/in-the-spirit/>
      o La Deliziosa Vita
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/la-deliziosa-vita/>
      o New & Notable
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/new-notable/>
      o Recipes <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/recipes/>
      o Reviews <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/reviews/>
      o Short Bites
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/short-bites/>
      o The Kitchenless Cook
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/the-kitchenless-cook/>
      o The Tablehopper
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/the-tablehopper/>
      o Wine World <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/wine-world/>
  * Features <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/>
      o Back Story
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/back-story/>
      o Bellingham by the Bay
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/bellingham-by-the-bay/>

      o Editor's Note
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/editors-note/>
      o Interview <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/interview/>
      o North Beach Journal
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/north-beach-journal/>
      o Reynolds Rap
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/reynolds-rap/>
      o The Right Fit
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/the-right-fit/>
      o Times Travelers
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/times-travelers/>
  * News <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/>
      o Captain’s View
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/captains-view/>
      o Community <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/community/>
      o Community News
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/community-news/>
      o Crime Beat <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/crime-beat/>
      o Election <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/election/>
      o News Briefs <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/news-briefs/>
      o Police Blotter
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/police-blotter/>
      o Safety Tips <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/safety-tips/>
      o Sightlines <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/sightlines/>
  * Pets <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/>
      o Cathouse <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/cathouse/>
      o Jasmine Blue's Tails of the Dog Park
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/jasmine-blues-tails-of-the-dog-park/>

      o Mews Briefs <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/mews-briefs/>
      o Pit of the Month
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/pit-of-the-month/>
      o Political Animal
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/political-animal/>
      o Sky’s Buys <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/skys-buys/>
      o The Adventures of Skylar Grey
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/the-adventures-of-skylar-grey/>

      o Yapping <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/yapping/>
  * Real Estate <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/>
      o Dreamhouse Showcase
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/dreamhouse-showcase/>

      o Market Maker
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/market-maker/>
      o Market Report
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/market-report/>
      o Property Lines
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/property-lines/>
      o Real Estate Investor
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/real-estate-investor/>

      o Real Estate Today
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/real-estate-today/>

      o The Mystery Housebuyer
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/mystery-housebuyer/>

  * Street Beat <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/>
      o Finds <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/finds/>
      o Marina-Cow Hollow Insider
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/marina-cow-hollow-insider/>

      o Neighborhood Nugget
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/neighborhood-nugget/>

      o Northsider
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/northsider/>
      o On and Off Chestnut
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/on-and-off-chestnut/>

      o Over the Hill
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/over-the-hill/>
      o Profiles
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/profiles/>
      o Scenes <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/scenes/>
      o Union Insider
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/union-insider/>
      o Union Street Scoop
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/union-street-scoop/>

  * Travel/Sports <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/>
      o Coastal Commuter
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/coastal-commuter/>
      o On the Bay <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/on-the-bay/>
      o Sports Corner
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/sports-corner/>
      o Travel with your Dog
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/travel-with-your-dog/>
      o Weekend Traveler
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/weekend-traveler/>

  * Advertise <http://www.marinatimes.com/advertise/>
  * Contact <http://www.marinatimes.com/contact/>
  * Archives <http://www.marinatimes.com/archives/>
  * Blog <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/blog/>
  * Login <http://www.marinatimes.com/wp-admin/>

© Marina Times

↵Back to Top <#>

