//
Marina Times <http://www.marinatimes.com/>
Celebrating our 32nd Year!
Join our e-mail list for news & special offers


    Subscribe to Marina Times mailing list for latest news

* indicates required
Email Address *

First Name

Last Name

Close

<#>

//

  * Current Issue

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/>
  * News

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/>
      o Captain’s View

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/captains-view>
      o Community

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/community>
      o Community News

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/community-news>
      o Crime Beat

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/crime-beat>
      o Election

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/election>
      o News Briefs

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news-briefs>
      o Police Blotter

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/police-blotter>
      o Safety Tips

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/safety-tips>
      o Sightlines

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sightlines>
  * Street Beat

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/>
      o Finds

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/finds>
      o Marina-Cow Hollow Insider

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/marina-cow-hollow-insider>
      o Neighborhood Nugget

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/neighborhood-nugget>
      o Northsider

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/northsider>
      o On and Off Chestnut

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/on-and-off-chestnut>
      o Over the Hill

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/over-the-hill>
      o Profiles

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/profiles>
      o Scenes

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/scenes>
      o Union Insider

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/union-insider>
      o Union Street Scoop

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/union-street-scoop>
  * Features

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/>
      o Back Story

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/back-story>
      o Bellingham by the Bay

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/bellingham-by-the-bay>
      o Editor's Note

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/editors-note>
      o Interview

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/interview>
      o North Beach Journal

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/north-beach-journal>
      o Reynolds Rap

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/reynolds-rap>
      o The Right Fit

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-right-fit>
      o Times Travelers

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/times-travelers>
  * Calendar

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/events/>
  * A & E

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/>
      o @Nite

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/nite>
      o Book Notes

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/book-notes>
      o Humor

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/humor>
      o Movie Reviews

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/movie-reviews>
      o Poems

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/poems>
      o Program Notes

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/program-notes>
      o Television

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/television>
      o The Best of Books

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-best-of-books>
  * Dining

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/>
      o Appetites and Afterthoughts

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/appetites-and-afterthoughts>
      o Dishing

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dishing>
      o Hot Spots

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/hot-spots>
      o Hungry Palate

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/hungry-palet>
      o In the Spirit

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/in-the-spirit>
      o La Deliziosa Vita

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/la-deliziosa-vita>
      o New & Notable

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/new-notable>
      o Recipes

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/recipes>
      o Reviews

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/reviews>
      o Short Bites

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/short-bites>
      o The Kitchenless Cook

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-kitchenless-cook>
      o The Tablehopper

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-tablehopper>
      o Wine World

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/wine-world>
  * Travel/Sports

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/>
      o Coastal Commuter

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/coastal-commuter>
      o On the Bay

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/on-the-bay>
      o Sports Corner

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports-corner>
      o Travel with your Dog

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/travel-with-your-dog>
      o Weekend Traveler

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/weekend-traveler>
  * At Home

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/>
      o Around the House

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/around-the-house>
      o Caring For Our Kids

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/caring-for-our-kids>
      o Family Matters

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/family-matters>
      o Home & Garden

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/home-garden>
      o Style

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/style>
      o Wellness

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/wellness>
  * Business

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/>
      o Common Knowledge

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/common-knowledge>
      o Dollars & Sense

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dollars-sense>
      o EarthTalk

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/earthtalk>
      o Finance

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/finance>
      o Less Taxing Matters

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/less-taxing-matters>
      o Science

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/science>
      o Socially Responsible

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/socially-responsible>
      o Technology

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/technology>
      o The Wild Wild Web

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-wild-wild-web>
  * Real Estate

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/>
      o Dreamhouse Showcase

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dreamhouse-showcase>
      o Market Maker

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/market-maker>
      o Market Report

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/market-report>
      o Property Lines

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/property-lines>
      o Real Estate Investor

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate-investor>
      o Real Estate Today

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate-today>
      o The Mystery Housebuyer

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/mystery-housebuyer>
  * Pets

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/>
      o Cathouse

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/cathouse>
      o Jasmine Blue's Tails of the Dog Park

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/jasmine-blues-tails-of-the-dog-park>

      o Mews Briefs

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/mews-briefs>
      o Pit of the Month

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pit-of-the-month>
      o Political Animal

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/political-animal>
      o Sky’s Buys

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/skys-buys>
      o The Adventures of Skylar Grey

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-adventures-of-skylar-grey>
      o Yapping

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/yapping>

Print
Reynolds Rap


  We built this city: Post-Super Bowl shantytowns show the city doesn’t
  know how

One of dozens of homeless camps under U.S. Highway 101 in the Mission.
photo: Steven Fromtling
by Susan Dyer Reynolds
March 2016

In less than a month, San Francisco built a city for the Super Bowl and
tore it down as if it never existed — an amazing feat. Yet, on a recent
drive down Division Street, my friend Steve counted more than 130 tents
occupied by the homeless. “It looks like a Hooverville,” he said. A
Hooverville was a shantytown built by homeless people during the Great
Depression and named for Herbert Hoover, who was president of the United
States during the onset of the Depression and therefore widely blamed
for it.

Maybe we should call the city’s tented shantytowns “Leevilles” after
Mayor Ed Lee, because he is often blamed for their proliferation. Though
homelessness was at crisis levels long before Lee took office, he does
seem rather obtuse about the current situation. Before rich revelers
came to celebrate a football game played 45 miles south, Lee told the
press he would give the homeless “alternatives” but they would have to
leave the streets. The city hastily prepared giant warehouses on the
outskirts of town to hide the destitute (at first, unlike Super Bowl
City, the plumbing wasn’t even working).

Lee also supported building a $160 million jail despite the fact that
the one at 850 Bryant Street is half empty, and he praised the state of
California for offering to contribute $80 million to the project. “Thank
you to Governor Brown for this $80 million grant to help kick-start our
effort to build a new, state-of-the-art facility …” Lee said as if
speaking at the ribbon cutting for a sports stadium. When the Board of
Supervisors pushed back and called for a complex focused on the mentally
ill, Lee lost his new jail, his $80 million grant, and his interest.

That’s too bad, because San Francisco desperately needs an innovative
hub that focuses not only on the mentally ill homeless, but also on the
sickest homeless who need long-term or permanent psychiatric care. I see
the politically correct wave of shock washing over your face as you read
this, but deep down you know it’s true. Some people living on the
streets — those who cause physical harm to themselves and others —
cannot be helped by bleeding hearts handing out more tents or the police
taking them to San Francisco General Hospital for a 72-hour “5150”
involuntary psych hold, or worse, to jail.

When I sat down before November’s election with then-Sheriff Ross
Mirkarimi, I asked him why the mentally ill homeless population seemed
bigger than ever. “The city has no plan — none — to deal with this,”
Mirkarimi said. “When I look back on how many psych beds there were at
San Francisco General Hospital 10 years ago, I’d say now it’s probably a
fifth of that. The mayor was trumpeting all the construction cranes and
building of five new hospitals, but this is the first time in the city’s
history that hospitals are being built without requiring them to have
psych beds.” That’s right — there’s no psychiatric bed requirement for
those shiny new hospitals. Combine that with the loss of beds at current
hospitals in just the past several years (69 at San Francisco General,
32 at St. Luke’s, and 20 at CPMC’s Davies Campus) and it’s easy to see
why the situation has spiraled out of control.

Mirkarimi also pointed out that while the jail population is declining,
the demography of that population is changing dramatically. “Now 30
percent of our population is dealing with mental illness, about 15
percent with significant mental illness,” Mirkarimi said. “County jail
systems are not designed for this, and while I do think we have a
top-flight in-house psychiatric unit, we’re like a MASH [Mobile Army
Surgical Hospital], with people coming in and we’re triaging them and
sending them right back out. All I have to do is go to San Francisco
General and then go to the jails, and I see 8 out of 10 people going
back and forth between our systems, and then I see them back on the
streets. This is a direct result of the fact this administration has no
plan to deal with mental illness. They’ll sweep it under the rug for the
Super Bowl because they want the façade, but the day-to-day reality is
they come into our jail system because there’s nowhere else for them to go.”

Until we realize that homelessness is not one-size-fits-all and that
mental illness is the largest component of the problem, nothing will
change. You can’t treat a veteran with PTSD the same way you treat a
person strung out on meth; and you can’t treat people who are bipolar
and off their meds the same as you do a chronic alcoholic prone to
violent outbursts. In fact, research shows that violence committed by
the mentally ill isn’t as prevalent as society believes, though it
increases when substance abuse enters the picture. The crimes committed
by the mentally ill homeless rarely rise to the level of those committed
by the general population. Navigation centers like the flagship at 1950
Mission Street are a step in the right direction for the nonmentally ill
homeless, allowing those living in encampments to stay with their
possessions, partners, and pets in bungalows while receiving counseling
and services, but this doesn’t address the severe lack of beds for the
mentally ill, nor does it answer the question of what to do with the
sickest of the sick.

In January, San Francisco District Attorney George Gascón, along with
supervisors David Campos, Malia Cohen, and Jane Kim, proposed the
construction of a behavioral health center that houses both inmates and
patients on multiple floors with differing levels of security as an
alternative to the failed plan for a new jail. Based on a successful
model in Miami, the center would include rapid mental health assessment
and secure facilities for those awaiting psychiatric beds. It would also
provide referrals and transfers for patients and inmates, in- and
out-patient treatment, and monitoring and follow-ups before and after an
arrest. Gascón estimates that 40 percent of the current average 1,300
inmates in County Jail suffer from mental illness (slightly higher than
Mirkarimi’s estimate), and about 80 percent of police calls involve
mental health issues. With a current 90-day wait for a psych bed,
mentally ill inmates are often released before they can access the help
they need.

Gascón’s plan sounds promising, but it appears Governor Brown is as
obtuse about the mentally ill homeless crisis as Mayor Lee: The proposed
center would not qualify for funding under the state grant program that
would have helped build a new jail. Instead, San Francisco’s state
legislators will need to find possible funding at the state level. As
for San Francisco, we’re spending a record $241 million on the homeless,
but anyone visiting the city would be hard-pressed to figure out where
it goes.

In February of 1911, President William Howard Taft signed a resolution
designating San Francisco as the official World’s Fair City. Eight
months later, Taft came to break the ceremonial ground and, during a
lunch at the Cliff House, toasted San Francisco as “the city that knows
how.” Over 100 years later, we proved we know how to build and tear down
a Super Bowl City inside a month, but unless we put that same energy
into building a behavioral health center, we’re going to see a lot more
Leevilles popping up — and become known as the city that doesn’t know
how to take care of its most vulnerable citizens.

E-mail: susan@marinatimes.com <mailto:susan@marinatimes.com>

Send to a Friend

Print


      Send *We built this city: Post-Super Bowl shantytowns show the
      city doesn’t know how* to a friend

*Your Name*:

*From* (your email):

*To* (friend's email):


      More Reynolds Rap »

      <http://www.marinatimes.com/?category_name=reynolds-rap>

  * The ‘me-me-me millionaires’ still not taking charitable chances

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/the-me-me-me-millionaires-still-not-taking-charitable-chances/>
  * Proposition SDR: Should meter maids run San Francisco?

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/proposition-sdr/>
  * Upscale comfort food

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/08/upscale-comfort-food/>
  * Grow up, Airbnb

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/07/grow-up-airbnb-youre-a-big-business-now-time-to-follow-the-rules/>
  * Some of the homeless people you pass have been in your shoes

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/06/there-but-for-the-grace-of-god-go-i-some-of-the-homeless-people-you-pass-have-been-in-your-shoes/>
  * Paradise Cost

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/05/paradise-cost/>
  * You can’t be shot in the back if you’re charging forward

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/04/you-cant-be-shot-in-the-back-if-youre-charging-forward-2/>
  * My love/hate relationship with Uber

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/03/my-lovehate-relationship-with-uber/>
  * A vote of disdain for Mayor Ed Lee: How the accidental mayor turned
    San Francisco into a playground for tax-skirting techies

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2015/11/a-vote-of-disdain-for-mayor-ed-lee-how-the-accidental-mayor-turned-the-city-into-a-playground-for-social-media-tech-players/>
  * Does the Board of Supervisors care more about protecting illegal
    immigrant felons than preventing another tragedy?

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2015/11/sanctuary-city-deja-vu-yet-again-does-the-board-of-supervisors-care-more-about-protecting-illegal-immigrant-felons-than-preventing-another-tragedy/>

  *


          News Briefs

      o Correction

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/correction/>
      o Farrell fine slashed

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/farrell-fine-slashed/>
      o $11 Million from feds for anti-congestion projects

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/11-million-from-feds-for-anti-congestion-projects/>

      o Fight over political money

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/fight-over-political-money/>
      o Polk, Van Ness construction underway

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/polk-van-ness-construction-underway/>

      o Real Foods loses lease battle, closes store on Fillmore

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/real-foods-loses-lease-battle-closes-store-on-fillmore/>

      o Crime Report

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/crime-report-2/>
      o City Honors Rose Pak

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/city-honors-rose-pak/>
      o Real Foods in Real Trouble

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/real-foods-in-real-trouble/>
      o Tunnel Vision

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/08/tunnel-vision/>

<https://www.crunch.com/guest-passes/?d=5&utm_source=C%20-%20SF%20-%20Marina%20Times&utm_medium=DISP&utm_content=5D&utm_campaign=C%20-%20%20SF%20-%20%20DISP%20-%20%205D%20-%20%20Marina%20Times%20-%20%203.16>


  *


          Most Read

      o Stopping the dark money game

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/stopping-the-dark-money-game/>
      o Polk, Van Ness construction underway

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/polk-van-ness-construction-underway/>

      o Whose units? Our units. Protecting the city’s housing assets

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/whos-units-our-units-protecting-the-citys-housing-assets/>

      o The ‘me-me-me millionaires’ still not taking charitable chances

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/the-me-me-me-millionaires-still-not-taking-charitable-chances/>

      o Real Foods loses lease battle, closes store on Fillmore

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/real-foods-loses-lease-battle-closes-store-on-fillmore/>

      o More with less

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/more-with-less/>
      o Montreal breed ban; Bay Area Pet Fair; Rocket Dog Rescue,
        Oakland shelter on new Cesar Millan series

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/montreal-breed-ban-bay-area-pet-fair-rocket-dog-rescue-oakland-shelter-on-new-cesar-millan-series/>

      o ‘Wellington Wednesdays,’ new openings will have you well fed

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/wellington-wednesdays-new-openings-will-have-you-well-fed/>



      Upcoming Events

more »

<http://www.marinatimes.com/events/>
Alexia Webster, Refugee Street Studio, Bulengo IDP camp, D. R. Congo,
2014–ongoing, digital archival print. Photos: Lexie Lee	Info »

<http://www.marinatimes.com/event/home-land-security/>
Photo: © the walt disney company	Info »

<http://www.marinatimes.com/event/wish-upon-a-star-the-art-of-pinocchio/>


        Home Land Security

Oct-Dec 5-18


        Wish Upon a Star: The Art of Pinocchio

May-Jan 18-9


      Articles by Author

  * Susan Dyer Reynolds

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/author/susan/>
  * Ernest Beyl

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/author/ernest/>
  * Bruce Bellingham

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/author/bruce/>
  * John Zipperer

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/author/john/>
  * more »

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/authors/>


      Download the Current Issue: November 2016

<http://www.marinatimes.com/wp-content/issue/current.pdf>

  * A & E <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/>
      o @Nite <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/nite/>
      o Book Notes <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/book-notes/>
      o Humor <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/humor/>
      o Movie Reviews
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/movie-reviews/>
      o Poems <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/poems/>
      o Program Notes
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/program-notes/>
      o Television <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/television/>
      o The Best of Books
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/the-best-of-books/>
  * At Home <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/>
      o Around the House
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/around-the-house/>
      o Caring For Our Kids
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/caring-for-our-kids/>
      o Family Matters
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/family-matters/>
      o Home & Garden
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/home-garden/>
      o Style <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/style/>
      o Wellness <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/wellness/>
  * Business <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/>
      o Common Knowledge
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/common-knowledge/>
      o Dollars & Sense
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/dollars-sense/>
      o EarthTalk <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/earthtalk/>
      o Finance <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/finance/>
      o Less Taxing Matters
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/less-taxing-matters/>
      o Science <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/science/>
      o Socially Responsible
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/socially-responsible/>

      o Technology
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/technology/>
      o The Wild Wild Web
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/the-wild-wild-web/>
  * Calendar <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/>
      o Arts & Culture
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/arts-culture/>
      o Child's Play
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/childs-play/>
      o Community Corner
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/community-corner/>
      o Creature Features
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/creature-features/>
      o Dance <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/dance/>
      o Film & Lectures
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/film-lectures/>
      o Free <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/free/>
      o Galas & Benefits
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/galas-benefits/>
      o Halloween <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/halloween/>
      o Holiday Happenings
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/holiday-happenings/>
      o Just for Fun
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/just-for-fun/>
      o Last Chance
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/last-chance/>
      o Major Events
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/major-events/>
      o Museums & Galleries
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/museums-galleries/>
      o Music <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/music/>
      o Nightlife <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/nightlife/>
      o Performances
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/performances/>
      o Potables & Edibles
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/potables-edibles/>
      o Science & Environment
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/science-environment/>
      o Sports & Health
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/sports-health/>
  * Commentary <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/>
      o Enter Stage Left
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/enter-stage-left/>
      o From our Assemblymember
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/from-our-assemblymember/>

      o Opinion <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/opinion/>
      o Supervisor's Report
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/supervisors-report/>

      o The In-Box
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/the-in-box/>
      o This Just In
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/this-just-in/>
      o Zippy <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/zippy/>
  * Dining <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/>
      o Appetites and Afterthoughts
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/appetites-and-afterthoughts/>

      o Dishing <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/dishing/>
      o Hot Spots <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/hot-spots/>
      o Hungry Palate
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/hungry-palet/>
      o In the Spirit
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/in-the-spirit/>
      o La Deliziosa Vita
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/la-deliziosa-vita/>
      o New & Notable
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/new-notable/>
      o Recipes <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/recipes/>
      o Reviews <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/reviews/>
      o Short Bites
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/short-bites/>
      o The Kitchenless Cook
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/the-kitchenless-cook/>
      o The Tablehopper
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/the-tablehopper/>
      o Wine World <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/wine-world/>
  * Features <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/>
      o Back Story
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/back-story/>
      o Bellingham by the Bay
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/bellingham-by-the-bay/>

      o Editor's Note
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/editors-note/>
      o Interview <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/interview/>
      o North Beach Journal
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/north-beach-journal/>
      o Reynolds Rap
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/reynolds-rap/>
      o The Right Fit
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/the-right-fit/>
      o Times Travelers
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/times-travelers/>
  * News <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/>
      o Captain’s View
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/captains-view/>
      o Community <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/community/>
      o Community News
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/community-news/>
      o Crime Beat <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/crime-beat/>
      o Election <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/election/>
      o News Briefs <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/news-briefs/>
      o Police Blotter
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/police-blotter/>
      o Safety Tips <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/safety-tips/>
      o Sightlines <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/sightlines/>
  * Pets <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/>
      o Cathouse <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/cathouse/>
      o Jasmine Blue's Tails of the Dog Park
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/jasmine-blues-tails-of-the-dog-park/>

      o Mews Briefs <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/mews-briefs/>
      o Pit of the Month
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/pit-of-the-month/>
      o Political Animal
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/political-animal/>
      o Sky’s Buys <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/skys-buys/>
      o The Adventures of Skylar Grey
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/the-adventures-of-skylar-grey/>

      o Yapping <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/yapping/>
  * Real Estate <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/>
      o Dreamhouse Showcase
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/dreamhouse-showcase/>

      o Market Maker
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/market-maker/>
      o Market Report
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/market-report/>
      o Property Lines
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/property-lines/>
      o Real Estate Investor
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/real-estate-investor/>

      o Real Estate Today
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/real-estate-today/>

      o The Mystery Housebuyer
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/mystery-housebuyer/>

  * Street Beat <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/>
      o Finds <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/finds/>
      o Marina-Cow Hollow Insider
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/marina-cow-hollow-insider/>

      o Neighborhood Nugget
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/neighborhood-nugget/>

      o Northsider
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/northsider/>
      o On and Off Chestnut
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/on-and-off-chestnut/>

      o Over the Hill
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/over-the-hill/>
      o Profiles
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/profiles/>
      o Scenes <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/scenes/>
      o Union Insider
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/union-insider/>
      o Union Street Scoop
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/union-street-scoop/>

  * Travel/Sports <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/>
      o Coastal Commuter
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/coastal-commuter/>
      o On the Bay <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/on-the-bay/>
      o Sports Corner
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/sports-corner/>
      o Travel with your Dog
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/travel-with-your-dog/>
      o Weekend Traveler
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/weekend-traveler/>

  * Advertise <http://www.marinatimes.com/advertise/>
  * Contact <http://www.marinatimes.com/contact/>
  * Archives <http://www.marinatimes.com/archives/>
  * Blog <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/blog/>
  * Login <http://www.marinatimes.com/wp-admin/>

© Marina Times

↵Back to Top <#>

