//
Marina Times <http://www.marinatimes.com/>
Celebrating our 32nd Year!
Join our e-mail list for news & special offers


    Subscribe to Marina Times mailing list for latest news

* indicates required
Email Address *

First Name

Last Name

Close

<#>

//

  * Current Issue

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/>
  * News

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/>
      o Captain’s View

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/captains-view>
      o Community

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/community>
      o Community News

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/community-news>
      o Crime Beat

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/crime-beat>
      o Election

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/election>
      o News Briefs

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news-briefs>
      o Police Blotter

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/police-blotter>
      o Safety Tips

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/safety-tips>
      o Sightlines

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sightlines>
  * Street Beat

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/>
      o Finds

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/finds>
      o Marina-Cow Hollow Insider

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/marina-cow-hollow-insider>
      o Neighborhood Nugget

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/neighborhood-nugget>
      o Northsider

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/northsider>
      o On and Off Chestnut

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/on-and-off-chestnut>
      o Over the Hill

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/over-the-hill>
      o Profiles

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/profiles>
      o Scenes

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/scenes>
      o Union Insider

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/union-insider>
      o Union Street Scoop

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/union-street-scoop>
  * Features

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/>
      o Back Story

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/back-story>
      o Bellingham by the Bay

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/bellingham-by-the-bay>
      o Editor's Note

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/editors-note>
      o Interview

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/interview>
      o North Beach Journal

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/north-beach-journal>
      o Reynolds Rap

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/reynolds-rap>
      o The Right Fit

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-right-fit>
      o Times Travelers

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/times-travelers>
  * Calendar

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/events/>
  * A & E

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/>
      o @Nite

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/nite>
      o Book Notes

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/book-notes>
      o Humor

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/humor>
      o Movie Reviews

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/movie-reviews>
      o Poems

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/poems>
      o Program Notes

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/program-notes>
      o Television

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/television>
      o The Best of Books

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-best-of-books>
  * Dining

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/>
      o Appetites and Afterthoughts

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/appetites-and-afterthoughts>
      o Dishing

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dishing>
      o Hot Spots

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/hot-spots>
      o Hungry Palate

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/hungry-palet>
      o In the Spirit

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/in-the-spirit>
      o La Deliziosa Vita

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/la-deliziosa-vita>
      o New & Notable

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/new-notable>
      o Recipes

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/recipes>
      o Reviews

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/reviews>
      o Short Bites

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/short-bites>
      o The Kitchenless Cook

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-kitchenless-cook>
      o The Tablehopper

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-tablehopper>
      o Wine World

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/wine-world>
  * Travel/Sports

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/>
      o Coastal Commuter

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/coastal-commuter>
      o On the Bay

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/on-the-bay>
      o Sports Corner

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports-corner>
      o Travel with your Dog

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/travel-with-your-dog>
      o Weekend Traveler

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/weekend-traveler>
  * At Home

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/>
      o Around the House

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/around-the-house>
      o Caring For Our Kids

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/caring-for-our-kids>
      o Family Matters

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/family-matters>
      o Home & Garden

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/home-garden>
      o Style

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/style>
      o Wellness

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/wellness>
  * Business

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/>
      o Common Knowledge

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/common-knowledge>
      o Dollars & Sense

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dollars-sense>
      o EarthTalk

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/earthtalk>
      o Finance

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/finance>
      o Less Taxing Matters

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/less-taxing-matters>
      o Science

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/science>
      o Socially Responsible

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/socially-responsible>
      o Technology

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/technology>
      o The Wild Wild Web

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-wild-wild-web>
  * Real Estate

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/>
      o Dreamhouse Showcase

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dreamhouse-showcase>
      o Market Maker

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/market-maker>
      o Market Report

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/market-report>
      o Property Lines

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/property-lines>
      o Real Estate Investor

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate-investor>
      o Real Estate Today

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate-today>
      o The Mystery Housebuyer

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/mystery-housebuyer>
  * Pets

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/>
      o Cathouse

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/cathouse>
      o Jasmine Blue's Tails of the Dog Park

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/jasmine-blues-tails-of-the-dog-park>

      o Mews Briefs

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/mews-briefs>
      o Pit of the Month

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pit-of-the-month>
      o Political Animal

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/political-animal>
      o Sky’s Buys

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/skys-buys>
      o The Adventures of Skylar Grey

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-adventures-of-skylar-grey>
      o Yapping

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/yapping>

Print
Supervisor's Report


  Homelessness in the city of St. Francis: Problems and solutions

by Supervisor Mark E. Farrell
July 2016
[photo by Foto_Michel]
photo by Foto_Michel

SF Homeless Project

Homelessness is an intractable issue that has plagued San Francisco and
cities and countries across the world for decades. Poverty, housing
shortages, growing income inequality, substance abuse, and behavioral
health issues all contribute to the vexing issue. Homelessness is not
only an epidemic with incalculable human costs, but also has huge
financial implications.

I believe that we have a moral imperative to do everything in our power
to reduce homelessness here in San Francisco, not only because of the
innumerable costs to our city, but most important because it is a human
issue, and as the city of Saint Francis we need to do everything in our
power to get these individuals off our streets.


      STATE OF HOMELESSNESS IN SAN FRANCISCO

The number of homeless individuals and families in San Francisco has
stubbornly remained the same for more than a decade. Our last biennial
homeless count in 2015 revealed that there are 6,686 people experiencing
homelessness in San Francisco, and roughly half of them are unsheltered.

Despite the numbers of homeless remaining essentially constant for more
than a decade, it does not mean that the city has not had some success
in addressing

the issue — other cities, including Los Angeles, New York, and Seattle,
have had major increases in their homeless populations over the past few
years. However, I would be the first to agree that the status quo on our
streets in San Francisco is simply unacceptable.

Since the city adopted the 10-Year Plan to Abolish Chronic Homelessness
in 2004, more than 25,000 homeless people have left the streets or our
city’s shelter system for permanent housing with the assistance of the
city’s homelessness services and programs.

Since the sunset of the “10-Year Plan,” the city has created 3,071 new
units of supportive housing and has instituted new programs, such as the
widely heralded Navigation Center, and reforms such as the Department of
Public Health standardizing objectives for supportive housing providers
and the Human Services Agency implementing a new tiered system for how
the agency delivers homelessness services.

There is clearly and obviously more work to be done.


      A NEW FIVE-YEAR PLAN

Homelessness has remained a major issue of concern for our residents for
years, and I want to make sure as a city that we never take our eye off
the ball. If we are going to significantly address homelessness, then I
believe we need a long-term, sustainable strategic vision to reduce
homelessness in our city.

Recently, I introduced and passed legislation requiring our new
Department of Homelessness and Supportive Housing to draft and implement
a five-year plan to reduce homelessness in San Francisco. I would like
to see our new department create a unified strategy for reducing
homelessness and for our city to speak with one voice. A five-year plan
will create higher-level accountability by ensuring our residents and
policymakers are working diligently toward the goal.


      COSTS OF HOMELESSNESS

Our city spends roughly $241 million annually to address homelessness,
with about 25 percent of that total coming from state and federal
resources. Just over 50 percent of our homelessness spending is to keep
people housed in supportive housing and to provide the supportive
services necessary to keep them on a path toward self-sufficiency.

I recently released a first-of-its-kind Budget and Legislative Analyst
report that calculates the costs of homelessness in San Francisco. The
results of the report are clear: It is less expensive to house the
homeless than treat them on our streets. The report further details the
benefits of supportive housing to homeless individuals and to the city:
Following placement in supportive housing, overall estimated
homelessness services costs decreased by 56 percent. Following placement
in supportive housing, homeless individuals and families were better
able to access routine or ongoing care, which saves the city millions in
emergency and urgent care services and helps the formerly homeless lead
healthier and productive lives. Placement in supportive housing also
helps to partially shift costs from the city’s General Fund to federal
and state programs — such as CalFresh and Medi-Cal — and helped decrease
jail costs by approximately 64 percent.

This report also identifies the largest cost-drivers and cost-savers of
our homelessness services system: emergency and urgent care services and
supportive housing, respectively. We must act quickly as a city to get
the homeless off the streets and into housing to save significant
taxpayer dollars and to improve people’s lives. The cost savings we can
realize over time from investing in supportive housing can free up city
resources for other vital public services that our residents depend on.

The bottom line is that if we as a city continue to make investments in
housing for the homeless, it is far and away the most cost-effective and
humane investment we can make.


      HOUSING, NOT TENTS

One particular issue that has proliferated on our streets and
unfortunately become a symbol for our homeless issue is the tent
encampments in our neighborhoods. I strongly believe that it is not
compassionate to allow human beings to live in tents on our streets; it
is dangerous, unhealthy, and nobody is getting better by sleeping on our
streets in their tents.

My “Costs of Homelessness” report proved without a doubt that the answer
to homelessness is housing, not tents. That’s why I recently introduced
a “Housing not Tents” initiative for the November ballot, which aims to
move homeless individuals out of tent encampments and into housing.

My initiative would mandate that shelter or housing be offered to
individuals residing in an encampment before removing it. The acceptance
of Homeward Bound — a city service that provides paid transportation to
a destination outside of San Francisco when connected to a housing
opportunity — would also trigger the removal of an encampment. It would
require that the city provide 24 hours notice, in writing, of the city’s
intent to remove the encampment, provide notice to all individuals
residing in the encampment and inform them of a specific available
shelter or housing opportunity, and also requires the city to store an
individual’s personal property for up to 90 days after removal.

I believe it is important that we don’t just push encampments from one
neighborhood to another. Encampments simply prolong homelessness, but
Housing not Tents actually provides a solution. The city of Saint
Francis needs to do everything in its power to get the homeless into
housing and out of these encampments, and the time is long past for
strong leadership on this issue.

  * Tags:
  * SF Homeless Project

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/tag/sf-homeless-project/>

Send to a Friend

Print


      Send *Homelessness in the city of St. Francis: Problems and
      solutions* to a friend

*Your Name*:

*From* (your email):

*To* (friend's email):


      More Supervisor's Report »

      <http://www.marinatimes.com/?category_name=supervisors-report>

  * Whose units? Our units. Protecting the city’s housing assets

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/whos-units-our-units-protecting-the-citys-housing-assets/>
  * Stopping the dark money game

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/stopping-the-dark-money-game/>
  * My picks from this year’s ballot of alphabet soup

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/my-picks-from-this-years-ballot-of-alphabet-soup/>
  * My ballot priorities for the November election

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/my-ballot-priorities-for-the-november-election/>
  * Leaning towers/gleaning solutions

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/08/leaning-towersgleaning-solutions/>
  * Homeless tent encampments: The right and wrong approach

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/08/homeless-tent-encampments-the-right-and-wrong-approach/>
  * Doing our j-o-b

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/07/doing-our-j-o-b/>
  * How we fight back: accountability and love

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/06/how-we-fight-back-accountability-and-love/>
  * What’s at stake in the June 7 election?

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/05/whats-at-stake-in-the-june-7-election/>
  * Supporting law enforcement, common sense reforms, and our neighborhoods

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/05/supporting-law-enforcement-common-sense-reforms-and-our-neighborhoods/>

  *


          News Briefs

      o Correction

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/correction/>
      o Farrell fine slashed

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/farrell-fine-slashed/>
      o $11 Million from feds for anti-congestion projects

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/11-million-from-feds-for-anti-congestion-projects/>

      o Fight over political money

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/fight-over-political-money/>
      o Polk, Van Ness construction underway

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/polk-van-ness-construction-underway/>

      o Real Foods loses lease battle, closes store on Fillmore

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/real-foods-loses-lease-battle-closes-store-on-fillmore/>

      o Crime Report

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/crime-report-2/>
      o City Honors Rose Pak

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/city-honors-rose-pak/>
      o Real Foods in Real Trouble

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/real-foods-in-real-trouble/>
      o Tunnel Vision

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/08/tunnel-vision/>

<https://www.crunch.com/guest-passes/?d=5&utm_source=C%20-%20SF%20-%20Marina%20Times&utm_medium=DISP&utm_content=5D&utm_campaign=C%20-%20%20SF%20-%20%20DISP%20-%20%205D%20-%20%20Marina%20Times%20-%20%203.16>


  *


          Most Read

      o Stopping the dark money game

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/stopping-the-dark-money-game/>
      o Polk, Van Ness construction underway

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/polk-van-ness-construction-underway/>

      o The ‘me-me-me millionaires’ still not taking charitable chances

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/the-me-me-me-millionaires-still-not-taking-charitable-chances/>

      o Whose units? Our units. Protecting the city’s housing assets

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/whos-units-our-units-protecting-the-citys-housing-assets/>

      o Real Foods loses lease battle, closes store on Fillmore

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/real-foods-loses-lease-battle-closes-store-on-fillmore/>

      o More with less

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/more-with-less/>
      o Montreal breed ban; Bay Area Pet Fair; Rocket Dog Rescue,
        Oakland shelter on new Cesar Millan series

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/montreal-breed-ban-bay-area-pet-fair-rocket-dog-rescue-oakland-shelter-on-new-cesar-millan-series/>

      o ‘Wellington Wednesdays,’ new openings will have you well fed

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/wellington-wednesdays-new-openings-will-have-you-well-fed/>



      Upcoming Events

more »

<http://www.marinatimes.com/events/>
Alexia Webster, Refugee Street Studio, Bulengo IDP camp, D. R. Congo,
2014–ongoing, digital archival print. Photos: Lexie Lee	Info »

<http://www.marinatimes.com/event/home-land-security/>
Photo: © the walt disney company	Info »

<http://www.marinatimes.com/event/wish-upon-a-star-the-art-of-pinocchio/>


        Home Land Security

Oct-Dec 5-18


        Wish Upon a Star: The Art of Pinocchio

May-Jan 18-9


      Articles by Author

  * Susan Dyer Reynolds

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/author/susan/>
  * Ernest Beyl

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/author/ernest/>
  * Bruce Bellingham

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/author/bruce/>
  * John Zipperer

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/author/john/>
  * more »

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/authors/>


      Download the Current Issue: November 2016

<http://www.marinatimes.com/wp-content/issue/current.pdf>

  * A & E <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/>
      o @Nite <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/nite/>
      o Book Notes <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/book-notes/>
      o Humor <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/humor/>
      o Movie Reviews
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/movie-reviews/>
      o Poems <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/poems/>
      o Program Notes
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/program-notes/>
      o Television <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/television/>
      o The Best of Books
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/the-best-of-books/>
  * At Home <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/>
      o Around the House
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/around-the-house/>
      o Caring For Our Kids
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/caring-for-our-kids/>
      o Family Matters
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/family-matters/>
      o Home & Garden
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/home-garden/>
      o Style <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/style/>
      o Wellness <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/wellness/>
  * Business <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/>
      o Common Knowledge
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/common-knowledge/>
      o Dollars & Sense
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/dollars-sense/>
      o EarthTalk <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/earthtalk/>
      o Finance <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/finance/>
      o Less Taxing Matters
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/less-taxing-matters/>
      o Science <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/science/>
      o Socially Responsible
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/socially-responsible/>

      o Technology
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/technology/>
      o The Wild Wild Web
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/the-wild-wild-web/>
  * Calendar <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/>
      o Arts & Culture
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/arts-culture/>
      o Child's Play
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/childs-play/>
      o Community Corner
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/community-corner/>
      o Creature Features
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/creature-features/>
      o Dance <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/dance/>
      o Film & Lectures
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/film-lectures/>
      o Free <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/free/>
      o Galas & Benefits
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/galas-benefits/>
      o Halloween <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/halloween/>
      o Holiday Happenings
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/holiday-happenings/>
      o Just for Fun
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/just-for-fun/>
      o Last Chance
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/last-chance/>
      o Major Events
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/major-events/>
      o Museums & Galleries
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/museums-galleries/>
      o Music <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/music/>
      o Nightlife <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/nightlife/>
      o Performances
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/performances/>
      o Potables & Edibles
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/potables-edibles/>
      o Science & Environment
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/science-environment/>
      o Sports & Health
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/sports-health/>
  * Commentary <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/>
      o Enter Stage Left
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/enter-stage-left/>
      o From our Assemblymember
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/from-our-assemblymember/>

      o Opinion <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/opinion/>
      o Supervisor's Report
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/supervisors-report/>

      o The In-Box
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/the-in-box/>
      o This Just In
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/this-just-in/>
      o Zippy <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/zippy/>
  * Dining <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/>
      o Appetites and Afterthoughts
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/appetites-and-afterthoughts/>

      o Dishing <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/dishing/>
      o Hot Spots <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/hot-spots/>
      o Hungry Palate
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/hungry-palet/>
      o In the Spirit
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/in-the-spirit/>
      o La Deliziosa Vita
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/la-deliziosa-vita/>
      o New & Notable
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/new-notable/>
      o Recipes <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/recipes/>
      o Reviews <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/reviews/>
      o Short Bites
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/short-bites/>
      o The Kitchenless Cook
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/the-kitchenless-cook/>
      o The Tablehopper
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/the-tablehopper/>
      o Wine World <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/wine-world/>
  * Features <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/>
      o Back Story
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/back-story/>
      o Bellingham by the Bay
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/bellingham-by-the-bay/>

      o Editor's Note
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/editors-note/>
      o Interview <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/interview/>
      o North Beach Journal
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/north-beach-journal/>
      o Reynolds Rap
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/reynolds-rap/>
      o The Right Fit
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/the-right-fit/>
      o Times Travelers
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/times-travelers/>
  * News <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/>
      o Captain’s View
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/captains-view/>
      o Community <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/community/>
      o Community News
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/community-news/>
      o Crime Beat <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/crime-beat/>
      o Election <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/election/>
      o News Briefs <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/news-briefs/>
      o Police Blotter
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/police-blotter/>
      o Safety Tips <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/safety-tips/>
      o Sightlines <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/sightlines/>
  * Pets <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/>
      o Cathouse <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/cathouse/>
      o Jasmine Blue's Tails of the Dog Park
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/jasmine-blues-tails-of-the-dog-park/>

      o Mews Briefs <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/mews-briefs/>
      o Pit of the Month
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/pit-of-the-month/>
      o Political Animal
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/political-animal/>
      o Sky’s Buys <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/skys-buys/>
      o The Adventures of Skylar Grey
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/the-adventures-of-skylar-grey/>

      o Yapping <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/yapping/>
  * Real Estate <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/>
      o Dreamhouse Showcase
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/dreamhouse-showcase/>

      o Market Maker
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/market-maker/>
      o Market Report
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/market-report/>
      o Property Lines
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/property-lines/>
      o Real Estate Investor
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/real-estate-investor/>

      o Real Estate Today
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/real-estate-today/>

      o The Mystery Housebuyer
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/mystery-housebuyer/>

  * Street Beat <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/>
      o Finds <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/finds/>
      o Marina-Cow Hollow Insider
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/marina-cow-hollow-insider/>

      o Neighborhood Nugget
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/neighborhood-nugget/>

      o Northsider
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/northsider/>
      o On and Off Chestnut
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/on-and-off-chestnut/>

      o Over the Hill
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/over-the-hill/>
      o Profiles
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/profiles/>
      o Scenes <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/scenes/>
      o Union Insider
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/union-insider/>
      o Union Street Scoop
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/union-street-scoop/>

  * Travel/Sports <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/>
      o Coastal Commuter
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/coastal-commuter/>
      o On the Bay <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/on-the-bay/>
      o Sports Corner
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/sports-corner/>
      o Travel with your Dog
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/travel-with-your-dog/>
      o Weekend Traveler
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/weekend-traveler/>

  * Advertise <http://www.marinatimes.com/advertise/>
  * Contact <http://www.marinatimes.com/contact/>
  * Archives <http://www.marinatimes.com/archives/>
  * Blog <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/blog/>
  * Login <http://www.marinatimes.com/wp-admin/>

© Marina Times

↵Back to Top <#>

