//
Marina Times <http://www.marinatimes.com/>
Celebrating our 32nd Year!
Join our e-mail list for news & special offers


    Subscribe to Marina Times mailing list for latest news

* indicates required
Email Address *

First Name

Last Name

Close

<#>

//

  * Current Issue

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/>
  * News

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/>
      o Captain’s View

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/captains-view>
      o Community

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/community>
      o Community News

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/community-news>
      o Crime Beat

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/crime-beat>
      o Election

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/election>
      o News Briefs

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news-briefs>
      o Police Blotter

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/police-blotter>
      o Safety Tips

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/safety-tips>
      o Sightlines

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sightlines>
  * Street Beat

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/>
      o Finds

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/finds>
      o Marina-Cow Hollow Insider

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/marina-cow-hollow-insider>
      o Neighborhood Nugget

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/neighborhood-nugget>
      o Northsider

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/northsider>
      o On and Off Chestnut

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/on-and-off-chestnut>
      o Over the Hill

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/over-the-hill>
      o Profiles

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/profiles>
      o Scenes

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/scenes>
      o Union Insider

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/union-insider>
      o Union Street Scoop

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/union-street-scoop>
  * Features

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/>
      o Back Story

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/back-story>
      o Bellingham by the Bay

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/bellingham-by-the-bay>
      o Editor's Note

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/editors-note>
      o Interview

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/interview>
      o North Beach Journal

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/north-beach-journal>
      o Reynolds Rap

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/reynolds-rap>
      o The Right Fit

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-right-fit>
      o Times Travelers

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/times-travelers>
  * Calendar

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/events/>
  * A & E

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/>
      o @Nite

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/nite>
      o Book Notes

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/book-notes>
      o Humor

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/humor>
      o Movie Reviews

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/movie-reviews>
      o Poems

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/poems>
      o Program Notes

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/program-notes>
      o Television

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/television>
      o The Best of Books

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-best-of-books>
  * Dining

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/>
      o Appetites and Afterthoughts

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/appetites-and-afterthoughts>
      o Dishing

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dishing>
      o Hot Spots

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/hot-spots>
      o Hungry Palate

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/hungry-palet>
      o In the Spirit

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/in-the-spirit>
      o La Deliziosa Vita

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/la-deliziosa-vita>
      o New & Notable

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/new-notable>
      o Recipes

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/recipes>
      o Reviews

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/reviews>
      o Short Bites

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/short-bites>
      o The Kitchenless Cook

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-kitchenless-cook>
      o The Tablehopper

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-tablehopper>
      o Wine World

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/wine-world>
  * Travel/Sports

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/>
      o Coastal Commuter

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/coastal-commuter>
      o On the Bay

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/on-the-bay>
      o Sports Corner

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports-corner>
      o Travel with your Dog

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/travel-with-your-dog>
      o Weekend Traveler

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/weekend-traveler>
  * At Home

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/>
      o Around the House

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/around-the-house>
      o Caring For Our Kids

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/caring-for-our-kids>
      o Family Matters

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/family-matters>
      o Home & Garden

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/home-garden>
      o Style

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/style>
      o Wellness

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/wellness>
  * Business

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/>
      o Common Knowledge

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/common-knowledge>
      o Dollars & Sense

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dollars-sense>
      o EarthTalk

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/earthtalk>
      o Finance

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/finance>
      o Less Taxing Matters

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/less-taxing-matters>
      o Science

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/science>
      o Socially Responsible

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/socially-responsible>
      o Technology

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/technology>
      o The Wild Wild Web

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-wild-wild-web>
  * Real Estate

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/>
      o Dreamhouse Showcase

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dreamhouse-showcase>
      o Market Maker

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/market-maker>
      o Market Report

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/market-report>
      o Property Lines

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/property-lines>
      o Real Estate Investor

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate-investor>
      o Real Estate Today

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate-today>
      o The Mystery Housebuyer

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/mystery-housebuyer>
  * Pets

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/>
      o Cathouse

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/cathouse>
      o Jasmine Blue's Tails of the Dog Park

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/jasmine-blues-tails-of-the-dog-park>

      o Mews Briefs

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/mews-briefs>
      o Pit of the Month

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pit-of-the-month>
      o Political Animal

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/political-animal>
      o Sky’s Buys

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/skys-buys>
      o The Adventures of Skylar Grey

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/the-adventures-of-skylar-grey>
      o Yapping

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/yapping>

Print
Supervisor's Report


  How we fight back: accountability and love

by Aaron Peskin
July 2016
[photo by Greatest Paka (flickr)]
photo by Greatest Paka (flickr)

SF Homeless Project

At the Board of Supervisors meeting following the June 12 massacre at
the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, the worst mass shooting in our nation’s
history, my colleagues and I read the names of the victims aloud one by
one. Twenty-seven years old. Thirty-four years old. Eighteen years old.
Each name uttered in the Chamber was heavy with a story of a recent
graduation, a new job opportunity, or the promise of some other exciting
life milestone that would now never be realized.

We can’t bring back the 49 lives that were taken from their families and
loved ones, but San Francisco can pledge its commitment to doing
everything possible to strip the gun industry of its seemingly
omnipotent influence. San Francisco Retirement Board member Victor
Makras introduced a firearms-divestment resolution at a 2013 Retirement
Board meeting following the Sandy Hook massacre and on the heels of
several other large California public pension fund divestments. But
shockingly, here in San Francisco there has been a lack of political
will to act on the Makras resolution, and we still hold over $1 million
in three gun and ammunition manufacturing companies. As San Francisco
Chronicle/SFGate’s Kathleen Pender reported recently, it’s a tiny
fraction of the fund’s $20 billion portfolio, but clearly important to
someone.

My colleague Supervisor Mark Farrell has introduced a resolution similar
to the 2013 Makras one, and I will be supporting it whole-heartedly. I
want to commend him for his action — it’s really the least this city can do.

In the meantime, I know our LGBTQ community will continue to celebrate
its rich legacy of love and struggle in the cultural hubs, entertainment
venues, and legacy businesses of San Francisco, because that is also a
way to fight back and honor the memory of Orlando. Be out, be visible,
and be united in love.


      SAN FRANCISCO MUST INVEST IN HOUSING FIRST

Kudos to the Marina Times for tackling the issue of homelessness via an
all-media project sponsored by the San Francisco Chronicle.

A recent Chronicle exposé on homelessness by Heather Knight countered
many stubborn myths about homelessness, including its cause and
demographics. Our most recent homeless count, for example, revealed that
71 percent of the homeless population surveyed lived in San Francisco at
the time they became homeless, with job loss and eviction cited as the
top two causes. That is a staggering number that underscores the need to
prioritize tenant protections and housing preservation, as well as
housing creation.

Nationwide, “Housing First” studies have confirmed that prioritizing
housing before all else is the single most effective thing that a city
can do to address homelessness — or in the case of Salt Lake City, Utah,
virtually end it. That means creating permanently affordable exit
housing from our shelter system that provides a stable living
environment and launchpad from which residents can address the other
destabilizing issues in their lives. In other words, we can build all
the navigation centers we want, but without someplace to navigate to,
folks will continue to end up back on our streets. While it’s expensive
initially, a housing-first strategy can be cost-effective in the long
run when targeted correctly.

We should be prioritizing a significant investment in this year’s city
budget with respect to exit housing and rental subsidies for low-income
residents. By the time you read this, the budget will be finalized, and
San Franciscans will know whether their respective supervisor supported
backfilling state and federal cuts and investing in supportive housing
creation.

The rest of our work lies with legislating tools to preserve and
incentivize housing. I’m fighting to keep people in their homes as well
as maintain affordable housing stock for renters by strengthening
enforcement of illegal conversions and local planning controls. Whether
you are Airbnb, the Academy of Art, or a private SRO hotel owner looking
to displace existing tenants for more lucrative tourist rentals, the
city has turned a blind eye to illegal and unscrupulous activities for
far too long with a great cost to our rent-controlled housing stock and
residents. I believe that is changing, though. The board recently
unanimously voted to approve homesharing/hosting platform enforcement
legislation that I co-sponsored with Supervisor David Campos, over
tremendous opposition from Airbnb.

I am also forging a citywide compromise with respect to accessory
dwelling units (ADUs) because — if done right — we can literally add
thousands of rent-controlled units to the market within the next few
years. We must also continue to push for limited city-owned surplus
property to be prioritized for affordable housing.

Finally, I want to take this post-June primary opportunity to thank you,
the voters, for overwhelmingly passing Proposition C, the charter
amendment I authored with Supervisor Kim, to more than double the amount
of affordable housing developers are required to build in new
construction. You have demonstrated your commitment to housing first;
it’s time for your local government to do the same.

Have a great summer and see you around the neighborhood.

  * Tags:
  * SF Homeless Project

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/tag/sf-homeless-project/>

Send to a Friend

Print


      Send *How we fight back: accountability and love* to a friend

*Your Name*:

*From* (your email):

*To* (friend's email):


      More Supervisor's Report »

      <http://www.marinatimes.com/?category_name=supervisors-report>

  * Whose units? Our units. Protecting the city’s housing assets

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/whos-units-our-units-protecting-the-citys-housing-assets/>
  * Stopping the dark money game

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/stopping-the-dark-money-game/>
  * My picks from this year’s ballot of alphabet soup

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/my-picks-from-this-years-ballot-of-alphabet-soup/>
  * My ballot priorities for the November election

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/my-ballot-priorities-for-the-november-election/>
  * Leaning towers/gleaning solutions

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/08/leaning-towersgleaning-solutions/>
  * Homeless tent encampments: The right and wrong approach

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/08/homeless-tent-encampments-the-right-and-wrong-approach/>
  * Doing our j-o-b

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/07/doing-our-j-o-b/>
  * Homelessness in the city of St. Francis: Problems and solutions

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/06/homelessness-in-the-city-of-st-francis-problems-and-solutions/>
  * What’s at stake in the June 7 election?

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/05/whats-at-stake-in-the-june-7-election/>
  * Supporting law enforcement, common sense reforms, and our neighborhoods

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/05/supporting-law-enforcement-common-sense-reforms-and-our-neighborhoods/>

  *


          News Briefs

      o Correction

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/correction/>
      o Farrell fine slashed

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/farrell-fine-slashed/>
      o $11 Million from feds for anti-congestion projects

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/11-million-from-feds-for-anti-congestion-projects/>

      o Fight over political money

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/fight-over-political-money/>
      o Polk, Van Ness construction underway

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/polk-van-ness-construction-underway/>

      o Real Foods loses lease battle, closes store on Fillmore

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/real-foods-loses-lease-battle-closes-store-on-fillmore/>

      o Crime Report

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/crime-report-2/>
      o City Honors Rose Pak

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/city-honors-rose-pak/>
      o Real Foods in Real Trouble

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/real-foods-in-real-trouble/>
      o Tunnel Vision

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/08/tunnel-vision/>

<https://www.crunch.com/guest-passes/?d=5&utm_source=C%20-%20SF%20-%20Marina%20Times&utm_medium=DISP&utm_content=5D&utm_campaign=C%20-%20%20SF%20-%20%20DISP%20-%20%205D%20-%20%20Marina%20Times%20-%20%203.16>


  *


          Most Read

      o Stopping the dark money game

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/stopping-the-dark-money-game/>
      o Polk, Van Ness construction underway

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/polk-van-ness-construction-underway/>

      o The ‘me-me-me millionaires’ still not taking charitable chances

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/the-me-me-me-millionaires-still-not-taking-charitable-chances/>

      o Whose units? Our units. Protecting the city’s housing assets

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/whos-units-our-units-protecting-the-citys-housing-assets/>

      o Real Foods loses lease battle, closes store on Fillmore

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/real-foods-loses-lease-battle-closes-store-on-fillmore/>

      o More with less

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/more-with-less/>
      o Montreal breed ban; Bay Area Pet Fair; Rocket Dog Rescue,
        Oakland shelter on new Cesar Millan series

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/montreal-breed-ban-bay-area-pet-fair-rocket-dog-rescue-oakland-shelter-on-new-cesar-millan-series/>

      o ‘Wellington Wednesdays,’ new openings will have you well fed

        <http://www.marinatimes.com/2016/10/wellington-wednesdays-new-openings-will-have-you-well-fed/>



      Upcoming Events

more »

<http://www.marinatimes.com/events/>
Alexia Webster, Refugee Street Studio, Bulengo IDP camp, D. R. Congo,
2014–ongoing, digital archival print. Photos: Lexie Lee	Info »

<http://www.marinatimes.com/event/home-land-security/>
Photo: © the walt disney company	Info »

<http://www.marinatimes.com/event/wish-upon-a-star-the-art-of-pinocchio/>


        Home Land Security

Oct-Dec 5-18


        Wish Upon a Star: The Art of Pinocchio

May-Jan 18-9


      Articles by Author

  * Susan Dyer Reynolds

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/author/susan/>
  * Ernest Beyl

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/author/ernest/>
  * Bruce Bellingham

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/author/bruce/>
  * John Zipperer

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/author/john/>
  * more »

    <http://www.marinatimes.com/authors/>


      Download the Current Issue: November 2016

<http://www.marinatimes.com/wp-content/issue/current.pdf>

  * A & E <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/>
      o @Nite <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/nite/>
      o Book Notes <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/book-notes/>
      o Humor <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/humor/>
      o Movie Reviews
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/movie-reviews/>
      o Poems <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/poems/>
      o Program Notes
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/program-notes/>
      o Television <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/television/>
      o The Best of Books
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/a-e/the-best-of-books/>
  * At Home <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/>
      o Around the House
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/around-the-house/>
      o Caring For Our Kids
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/caring-for-our-kids/>
      o Family Matters
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/family-matters/>
      o Home & Garden
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/home-garden/>
      o Style <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/style/>
      o Wellness <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/at-home/wellness/>
  * Business <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/>
      o Common Knowledge
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/common-knowledge/>
      o Dollars & Sense
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/dollars-sense/>
      o EarthTalk <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/earthtalk/>
      o Finance <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/finance/>
      o Less Taxing Matters
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/less-taxing-matters/>
      o Science <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/science/>
      o Socially Responsible
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/socially-responsible/>

      o Technology
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/technology/>
      o The Wild Wild Web
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/business/the-wild-wild-web/>
  * Calendar <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/>
      o Arts & Culture
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/arts-culture/>
      o Child's Play
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/childs-play/>
      o Community Corner
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/community-corner/>
      o Creature Features
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/creature-features/>
      o Dance <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/dance/>
      o Film & Lectures
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/film-lectures/>
      o Free <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/free/>
      o Galas & Benefits
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/galas-benefits/>
      o Halloween <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/halloween/>
      o Holiday Happenings
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/holiday-happenings/>
      o Just for Fun
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/just-for-fun/>
      o Last Chance
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/last-chance/>
      o Major Events
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/major-events/>
      o Museums & Galleries
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/museums-galleries/>
      o Music <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/music/>
      o Nightlife <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/nightlife/>
      o Performances
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/performances/>
      o Potables & Edibles
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/potables-edibles/>
      o Science & Environment
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/science-environment/>
      o Sports & Health
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/calendar/sports-health/>
  * Commentary <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/>
      o Enter Stage Left
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/enter-stage-left/>
      o From our Assemblymember
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/from-our-assemblymember/>

      o Opinion <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/opinion/>
      o Supervisor's Report
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/supervisors-report/>

      o The In-Box
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/the-in-box/>
      o This Just In
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/this-just-in/>
      o Zippy <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/commentary/zippy/>
  * Dining <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/>
      o Appetites and Afterthoughts
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/appetites-and-afterthoughts/>

      o Dishing <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/dishing/>
      o Hot Spots <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/hot-spots/>
      o Hungry Palate
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/hungry-palet/>
      o In the Spirit
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/in-the-spirit/>
      o La Deliziosa Vita
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/la-deliziosa-vita/>
      o New & Notable
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/new-notable/>
      o Recipes <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/recipes/>
      o Reviews <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/reviews/>
      o Short Bites
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/short-bites/>
      o The Kitchenless Cook
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/the-kitchenless-cook/>
      o The Tablehopper
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/the-tablehopper/>
      o Wine World <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/dining/wine-world/>
  * Features <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/>
      o Back Story
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/back-story/>
      o Bellingham by the Bay
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/bellingham-by-the-bay/>

      o Editor's Note
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/editors-note/>
      o Interview <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/interview/>
      o North Beach Journal
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/north-beach-journal/>
      o Reynolds Rap
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/reynolds-rap/>
      o The Right Fit
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/the-right-fit/>
      o Times Travelers
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/features/times-travelers/>
  * News <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/>
      o Captain’s View
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/captains-view/>
      o Community <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/community/>
      o Community News
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/community-news/>
      o Crime Beat <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/crime-beat/>
      o Election <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/election/>
      o News Briefs <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/news-briefs/>
      o Police Blotter
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/police-blotter/>
      o Safety Tips <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/safety-tips/>
      o Sightlines <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/news/sightlines/>
  * Pets <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/>
      o Cathouse <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/cathouse/>
      o Jasmine Blue's Tails of the Dog Park
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/jasmine-blues-tails-of-the-dog-park/>

      o Mews Briefs <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/mews-briefs/>
      o Pit of the Month
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/pit-of-the-month/>
      o Political Animal
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/political-animal/>
      o Sky’s Buys <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/skys-buys/>
      o The Adventures of Skylar Grey
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/the-adventures-of-skylar-grey/>

      o Yapping <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/pets/yapping/>
  * Real Estate <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/>
      o Dreamhouse Showcase
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/dreamhouse-showcase/>

      o Market Maker
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/market-maker/>
      o Market Report
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/market-report/>
      o Property Lines
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/property-lines/>
      o Real Estate Investor
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/real-estate-investor/>

      o Real Estate Today
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/real-estate-today/>

      o The Mystery Housebuyer
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/real-estate/mystery-housebuyer/>

  * Street Beat <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/>
      o Finds <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/finds/>
      o Marina-Cow Hollow Insider
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/marina-cow-hollow-insider/>

      o Neighborhood Nugget
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/neighborhood-nugget/>

      o Northsider
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/northsider/>
      o On and Off Chestnut
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/on-and-off-chestnut/>

      o Over the Hill
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/over-the-hill/>
      o Profiles
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/profiles/>
      o Scenes <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/scenes/>
      o Union Insider
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/union-insider/>
      o Union Street Scoop
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/street-beat/union-street-scoop/>

  * Travel/Sports <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/>
      o Coastal Commuter
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/coastal-commuter/>
      o On the Bay <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/on-the-bay/>
      o Sports Corner
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/sports-corner/>
      o Travel with your Dog
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/travel-with-your-dog/>
      o Weekend Traveler
        <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/sports/weekend-traveler/>

  * Advertise <http://www.marinatimes.com/advertise/>
  * Contact <http://www.marinatimes.com/contact/>
  * Archives <http://www.marinatimes.com/archives/>
  * Blog <http://www.marinatimes.com/category/blog/>
  * Login <http://www.marinatimes.com/wp-admin/>

© Marina Times

↵Back to Top <#>

