  * <http://www.sfgate.com/>
  * Autos <http://www.sfgate.com/cars/>
  * Jobs <http://www.sfgate.com/jobs/>
  * Real Estate <http://www.sfgate.com/realestate/>
  *

    <http://weather.sfgate.com/US/CA/San_Francisco.html>
    <http://weather.sfgate.com/US/CA/San_Francisco.html>

  * e-edition <http://www.sfchronicle.com/e-edition/>
  * Subscribe <http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe>
  *
    Sign In


     


              Sign in using


                or

    Email Address or Password is incorrect.

    Email address field is required.

    Password field is required.
    Show password
    Forgot password? <javascript:void(0)>
    Keep me signed in


    Don't have a profile?


                Don't have a subscription?

    Sign up <javascript:void(0)> Subscribe

    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>

    By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>


  Local <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/>

  *
    Home <http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
  *
    SFGATE <http://www.sfgate.com/>
  *
    Local <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/>
      o
        Pot legalization
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/pot-legalization/>
      o
        Columnists
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/columnists/>
      o
        San Francisco
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/sanfrancisco/>
      o
        Bay Area
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/bayarea/>
      o
        Crime
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/crime/>
      o
        Environment
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/environment/>
      o
        Election 2016
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/election/2016/>
      o
        Health
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/lifestyle/health/>
      o
        Obituaries
        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/sfgate/>
      o
        California Drought
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/drought/>
  *
    US & World <http://www.sfchronicle.com/us-world/>
      o
        US
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/us-world/us/>
      o
        World
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/us-world/world/>
      o
        Politics & Policy
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/us-world/politics-policy/>
      o
        Environment
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/us-world/environment/>
      o
        Science
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/us-world/science/>
  *
    Sports <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/>
      o
        49ers
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/49ers/>
      o
        Raiders
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/raiders/>
      o
        Giants
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/giants/>
      o
        A's
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/athletics/>
      o
        Warriors
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/warriors/>
      o
        Cal
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/cal_sports/>
      o
        College
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/college/>
      o
        Stanford
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/stanford_sports/>
      o
        Sharks
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/sharks/>
      o
        High School
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/high-school/>
      o
        More Sports
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/other/>
  *
    Biz & Tech <http://www.sfchronicle.com/business/>
      o
        VisionSF
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/visionsf>
      o
        Technology
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/business/technology/>
      o
        Real Estate
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/business/realestate/>
      o
        Driving the future
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/drivingthefuture/>
      o
        Markets
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/business/markets/>
  *
    Opinion <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/>
      o
        Editorials
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/editorials/>
      o
        Letters to the editor
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/letters-editor/>
      o
        Op-ed columns
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/op-ed-columns/>
      o
        Insight
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/insight/>
      o
        Open Forum
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/openforum/>
      o
        Submit your opinions
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/article/submit-your-opinion-7244189.php?t=3678db0449>

  *
    Style <http://www.sfchronicle.com/style/>
      o
        Scene
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/style/scene/>
      o
        Fashion
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/style/fashion/>
      o
        Shopping
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/style/shopping/>
      o
        Weddings
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/style/weddings/>
      o
        Top Shops 2016
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/top-shops-2016/>
  *
    Food+Home <http://www.sfchronicle.com/foodandhome/>
      o
        Restaurants
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/foodandhome/restaurants/>
      o
        Wine & Beer
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/foodandhome/wine/>
      o
        Recipes
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/foodandhome/recipes/>
      o
        Cook Your Week
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/cookyourweek/>
      o
        Top 100 Restaurants
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/top100restaurants>
      o
        Home Design
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/foodandhome/home-design/>
      o
        Habitat
        <http://digital.olivesoftware.com/Olive/ODN/Habitat/default.aspx>
  *
    A&E <http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/>
      o
        Movies & TV
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/movies-tv/>
      o
        Arts & Theater
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/arts-theater/>
      o
        Music
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/music/>
      o
        Music Festivals Guide
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/music-festivals/>
      o
        Books
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/books/>
      o
        Bad Reporter
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/badreporter/>
      o
        Horoscopes
        <http://www.sfgate.com/horoscope/>
      o
        Comics
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/comics/>
      o
        Games
        <http://www.sfgate.com/games>
      o
        Movie Listings
        <http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/movies/listings/search>
      o
        SFMOMA
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sfmoma/>
      o
        Leah Garchik
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/author/leah-garchik/>
      o
        Best of Jon Carroll
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/bestofjoncarroll/>
      o
        The Literary City
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/theliterarycity/>
  *
    Lifestyle <http://www.sfchronicle.com/lifestyle/>
      o
        Style
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/style>
      o
        Health
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/lifestyle/health/>
      o
        Outdoors
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/lifestyle/outdoors/>
      o
        Travel
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/lifestyle/travel/>
      o
        Tops Shops 2016
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/top-shops-2016/>
  *
    Photos <http://www.sfchronicle.com/thetake/>
      o
        From the Archive
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/thetakefromthearchive/>
      o
        Photos of the Week
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/thetakepotw/>
      o
        City Exposed
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/takecityexposed/>
      o
        Field of Vision
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/fieldofvision/>
      o
        The Regulars
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/theregulars/>
  *
    Travel <http://www.sfchronicle.com/lifestyle/travel/>
  *
    In-Depth <http://www.sfchronicle.com/special-reports/>
      o
        Beyond Homelessness
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/>
      o
        Top 100 Restaurants
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/top100restaurants>
      o
        AIDS Survivors
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/living-with-aids/>
      o
        Chronicle Covers
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/covers/>
      o
        The Najee Chronicles
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/najee-harris/>
      o
        Seafood's new normal
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/california-seafood-collapse/>
      o
        Rising sea levels
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/sea-level-rise/>
      o
        Bar Stars 2016
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/food/article/Bar-Stars-2016-A-drink-for-everyone-9984049.php>

      o
        Lucas Museum art
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/lucas-art/>
      o
        Captive Lives
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/captive-lives/>
      o
        Airbnb Project 2016
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/airbnb/>
      o
        NorCal Brewery Map
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/brewerymap/>
      o
        Our SF: Archive
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/oursf/>
  *
    Membership <http://www.sfchronicle.com/membership/>
      o
        About Membership
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/membership/faq/>
      o
        Exclusive offers
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/membership/#offers>
      o
        Join Now
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/?ipid=membership>
      o
        Manage my account
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/account>
      o
        Archive
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/archive/>
  *
    Store <https://sfchronicle.myshopify.com/>


    Mark Farrell’s ‘Housing Not Tents’ measure likely to hit home

By C.W. Nevius <http://www.sfchronicle.com/author/c-w-nevius/>

June 27, 2016 Updated: June 27, 2016 4:25pm

  *

    <javascript:hst_print();>
  *

    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/nevius/article/Mark-Farrell-s-Housing-Not-Tents-measure-8328205.php#comments>

    94

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Tent dwellers would be given 24-hour eviction notices and a place to
relocate under Supervisor Mark Farrell’s plan. Photo: Lea Suzuki, The
Chronicle
Photo: Lea Suzuki, The Chronicle

  *

    <javascript:hst_print();>
  *

    <#comments>
    94

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Tent dwellers would be given 24-hour eviction notices and a place to
relocate under Supervisor Mark Farrell’s plan.
Tent dwellers would be given 24-hour eviction notices and a place...

San Francisco Supervisor Mark Farrell and his “Housing Not Tents”
initiative for the November ballot have become a political lightning rod.

Granted, the specifics are a little vague. The plan calls for the city
to give tent dwellers 24-hour notices before they are forced to move —
and also a place for them to move to. It’s one of those flagship
measures that all but guarantees a faceoff between the moderates and
progressives. Farrell says the point of the measure is to move the
homeless out of tents and into housing.

But, as we’ve seen, at present we don’t have enough rooms or shelters
for all the homeless on the street.

Still, the measure is bound to resonate with homeowners and
businesspeople who have had it with campers peeing on the street and
leaving hypodermic needles on the sidewalks.

There’s an excellent chance it’ll pass. An informal poll of more than
500 people by Curbed SF found that 86.2 percent backed a law against
sidewalk camping. A lopsided result like that will energize and
encourage moderate politicians to promote more forceful efforts to close
down encampments.

That possibility has energized activist groups that are demanding that
Farrell pull the legislation from the ballot. Causa Justa and the
Western Regional Advocacy Project are publishing office phone numbers of
moderate supervisors and urging people to call and make a “criminalizing
the homeless” complaint, according to a Causa Justa flyer.

Angela Flax, who is homeless, packs her tent at the Division Street
encampment in February with the help of friend Jeremy Young of
Sacramento. In March, the city evicted people camping on Division
Street. Photo: Lea Suzuki, The Chronicle
Photo: Lea Suzuki, The Chronicle

  *

    <javascript:hst_print();>
  *

    <#comments>
    94

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Angela Flax, who is homeless, packs her tent at the Division Street
encampment in February with the help of friend Jeremy Young of
Sacramento. In March, the city evicted people camping on Division Street.
Angela Flax, who is homeless, packs her tent at the Division Street...

Farrell posted the bill on his Facebook page Wednesday. Five days later,
he had more than 400 “likes,” more than 130 “angry” clicks and 350-plus
comments, ranging from calling Farrell “a selfish, entitled,
inconsiderate —hole” to “All those people who are sad can house one
homeless person in their home.”

Meanwhile, in City Hall, Supervisor John Avalos has invoked what
opponents are calling “the nuclear option.” Avalos is threatening to
organize progressives to vote against a sales tax on the fall ballot
that each year would contribute $100 million to transportation and $50
million to homelessness. Over 25 years, Farrell says, that would work
out to $1.25 billion for homeless issues.

Avalos declined to be interviewed, but directed me to his Facebook page.

Supervisors Farrell, Scott Wiener, Katy Tang, Malia Cohen and Mayor Ed
Lee, Avalos wrote, “have to ask themselves if they are willing to forgo
revenue for homelessness so they can put a vile political measure on the
ballot targeting homeless people, living in tents with no where else to
go, as campaign fodder.”

To which Farrell replied, “If Supervisor Avalos wants his legacy ... to
be voting against an additional $1.25 billion in spending to help our
homeless get off the street over the next 25 years, that’s his decision
to make.”

*Boo who?* The fuss at the annual Trans March on Friday was just
pointless venting — and weird. Mayor Ed Lee, state Sen. Mark Leno and
Supervisor Scott Wiener were heckled and booed at the Dolores Park event.

Booing the mayor, of course, has become a thing.


        C.W. Nevius on the homeless

  *
    This homeless encampment on Essex Street has a tent, bike and
    leather armchair
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/nevius/article/The-homeless-camp-just-outside-the-door-8109886.php>

    The homeless camp just outside the door
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/nevius/article/The-homeless-camp-just-outside-the-door-8109886.php>

  *
    Linda Williams (left) and Haile Tillery talk beside a row of tents
    near Folsom and 16th streets in San Francisco, California, on
    Sunday, May 22, 2016.
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/nevius/article/Sidewalk-campsites-frustrate-neighbors-city-7940982.php>

    Sidewalk campsites frustrate neighbors, city leaders
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/nevius/article/Sidewalk-campsites-frustrate-neighbors-city-7940982.php>

  *
    Vivian Cook of San Francisco walks past tents pitched along Florida
    Street at 16th Street on Friday, April 29, 2016 in San Francisco,
    California. "It's the criminal activity, I have a problem with; I
    don't have a problem with the homeless. It's very sad," said Kirsty
    Gumina (not shown), owner McCall Catering and Events, who explained
    that there had been other homeless who were living on the street
    outside her business but that there wasn't the criminal activity
    that there is now. "There are only two tents today because they just
    made them move. We're a catering company, we used to feed them. Now
    there are car break-ins, hardcore drug use, fighting. I'll walk by
    and see them shooting up right next to the day care center. It's
    become unpredictable and not safe."
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/nevius/article/SF-supe-s-plan-for-homeless-camps-a-template-7384553.php>

    SF supe’s plan for homeless camps a template for chaos
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/nevius/article/SF-supe-s-plan-for-homeless-camps-a-template-7384553.php>

  *
    Papa Smirf (center) carries some of his belongings down the 13th
    Street as he prepares to move from his tent on 13th Street to Pier
    80 with help from the San Francisco Homeless Outreach Team on
    Thursday, February 25, 2016 in San Francisco, California.
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/nevius/article/Help-the-homeless-by-prioritizing-certain-groups-6857263.php>

    Help the homeless by prioritizing certain groups
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/nevius/article/Help-the-homeless-by-prioritizing-certain-groups-6857263.php>


But Wiener and Leno, both gay, have surely earned bonus points with the
transgender community over the years. As Leno said at the event, he
pushed to add gender identity to the Fair Employment Housing Act.

Wiener not only attends the march annually, this year he managed to get
money in the city budget to pay for the fees and permits for the Trans
March.

No matter. Each was singled out for heckling. Leno called Monday to say
he even confronted some of the demonstrators and asked them what their
issues are.

“Do you know who I am?” Leno asked one of the hecklers.

“No, and I don’t want to,” was the reply.

“It’s not rational,” Leno said. “It’s all emotional.”

*Poignant:* Just a reminder that, although it’s easy to rant about the
lack of progress and understanding for the LBGT community, we’ve come a
long way. Golden State Warriors President Rick Welts, the first openly
gay top-level executive in men’s professional sports, was the keynote
speaker Sunday at the annual Alice B. Toklas Breakfast before the Pride
Parade.

He told the story of being a closeted gay man in a committed
relationship in the 1990s.

“I lost my partner of 17 years to AIDS,” he said. “And I had to go into
work the next day because I couldn’t tell anyone.”

//

/C.W. Nevius is a San Francisco Chronicle columnist. His columns appear
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Email: cwnevius@sfchronicle.com
<mailto:cwnevius@sfchronicle.com> Twitter: @cwnevius
<http://twitter.com/cwnevius>/

//

C.W. Nevius


    C.W. Nevius <http://www.sfchronicle.com/author/c-w-nevius/>

Columnist

You must be signed in to comment

is currently signed inSign In

<javascript:void(0)> <javascript:void(0)>


 


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Show password
Forgot password? <javascript:void(0)>
Keep me signed in


Don't have a profile?


            Don't have a subscription?

Sign up <javascript:void(0)> Subscribe

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


        Local <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/>

A woman walks past the Forest Hill Christian Church on Laguna Honda
Boulevard in San Francisco, Calif. on Tuesday, Nov. 15, 2016. Residents
are unhappy with a proposed plan to build 150 units of affordable senior
housing on the site.
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/In-a-wealthy-SF-neighborhood-residents-fight-10617213.php>



    In a wealthy SF neighborhood, residents fight low-income housing
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/In-a-wealthy-SF-neighborhood-residents-fight-10617213.php>


        Politics & policy
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/politics-policy/>

UNITED STATES - SEPTEMBER 29: House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi,
D-Calif., holds her weekly press conference in the Capitol on Thursday,
Sept. 29, 2016. (Photo By Bill Clark/CQ Roll Call)
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/politics/article/Will-Pelosi-take-the-fall-for-Democratic-Party-10617055.php>



    Will Pelosi take the fall for Democratic Party failures?
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/politics/article/Will-Pelosi-take-the-fall-for-Democratic-Party-10617055.php>


        Wine & Beer <http://www.sfchronicle.com/foodandhome/wine/>

People sample wines at an In Pursuit of Balance event at the Millennium
Tower in San Francisco, Calif. on Monday, Nov. 14, 2016. This was the
last wine tasting event put on by In Pursuit of Balance.
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/wine/article/In-Pursuit-of-Balance-wine-group-calls-it-quits-10616178.php>



    In Pursuit of Balance wine group calls it quits with last tasting
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/wine/article/In-Pursuit-of-Balance-wine-group-calls-it-quits-10616178.php>


        Top 100 Restaurants
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/top-100-restaurants/>

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/top-100-restaurants/>


    Top 100 Restaurants 2016: Savor Bay Area's best
    <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/top-100-restaurants/>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/news/article/Man-20-shot-near-Dolores-Park-10619654.php>



      7:25 PMMan, 20, shot near Dolores Park
      <http://www.sfchronicle.com/news/article/Man-20-shot-near-Dolores-Park-10619654.php>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/Two-shot-during-brawl-at-Berkeley-s-Strawberry-10619624.php>



      7:06 PMTwo shot during brawl at Berkeley's Strawberry Creek Park
      <http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/Two-shot-during-brawl-at-Berkeley-s-Strawberry-10619624.php>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/UC-Berkeley-responds-to-student-demands-in-10619436.php>



      6:01 PMUC Berkeley responds to student demands in harassment case
      <http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/UC-Berkeley-responds-to-student-demands-in-10619436.php>


        Local

Load more in Section
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
Top <#container>

  *


          About

      o Our Company
        <http://www.hearst.com/newspapers/san-francisco-chronicle.php>
      o Ad Choices <http://www.aboutads.info/choices/>
      o Careers <http://www.sfchronicle.com/hr/>
      o Terms of Use <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/>
      o Advertising <http://marketing.sfgate.com/>
      o Privacy Policy <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy>
      o Your Privacy Rights
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy#your_rights>
      o Your California Privacy Rights
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/#caprivacyrights>

  *


          Contact

      o Customer Service <http://www.sfchronicle.com/customer_service>
      o Frequently Asked Questions <http://www.sfchronicle.com/faq>
      o Newsroom Contacts <http://www.sfchronicle.com/newsroom_contacts>

  *


          Connect

      o Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/sanfranciscochronicle>
      o Twitter <https://twitter.com/sfchronicle>
      o LinkedIn <https://www.linkedin.com/company/san-francisco-chronicle>
      o Google+ <https://plus.google.com/+sfgate/posts>
  *


          Connect

      o <https://www.facebook.com/sanfranciscochronicle>
      o <https://twitter.com/sfchronicle>
      o <https://www.linkedin.com/company/san-francisco-chronicle>
      o <https://plus.google.com/+sfgate/posts>

© 2016 Hearst Corporation


    The sign in service is not functioning right now.


    Please try again in a few minutes

If the issues continue, please contact our customer service at

Phone:

Email:


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Show password
Forgot password? <javascript:void(0)>
Keep me signed in


Don't have a profile?


            Don't have a subscription?

Sign up <javascript:void(0)> Subscribe

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a profile using


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password
Send me email offers

Already have a profile? Sign In <javascript:void(0)>

By clicking "Next" or signing in you confirm that you accept our Terms
and Conditions <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and have read
and understood our Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel <javascript:void(0)>


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

<javascript:void(0)>


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in

<javascript:void(0)>


          Hi,


          You are signed in

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>

Maintain your delivery address, payment details and place a vacation
hold in Subscriber Portal.

MANAGE SUBSCRIPTION

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/account/>

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>
SUBSCRIBE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>
SIGN OUT

<javascript:void(0)>


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our
Terms of Service <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy
Policy <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign In

Keep me signed in
Show password Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Paid Subscription Access Only

You are now signed in but you must have a San Francisco Chronicle
subscription to access any content.

Already have a subscription?

ACTIVATE

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfchronicle.com%2Fbayarea%2Fnevius%2Farticle%2FMark-Farrell-s-Housing-Not-Tents-measure-8328205.php%3Ft%3Db31956f26b>


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          About Me

DISPLAY NAMEDisplay names must begin with an alpha-numeric character.
They can not contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor
may they contain obscenities.

This display name is already in use. Please enter a different display name.

You must enter a display name.

Display names must begin with an alpha-numeric character. They can not
contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor may they
contain obscenities.

EMAIL ADDRESSChanging this email address will also change the email
address associated with your subscription

You must enter an email address.

GENDERThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

BIRTH YEARThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

* are required fields


          SF Chronicle Subscription

You can manage your delivery address, payment details, delete your
account and more subscription details in the subscriber portal.

Manage Subscription

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/account/>


            Get it on all your devices


    Unlimited digital access with every subscription

SFChronicle.com | App for iPhone and iPad
e-edition (daily print replica) | Exclusive member experiences and discounts

SUBSCRIBE NOW AND SAVE!

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/> I have a subscription

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfchronicle.com%2Fbayarea%2Fnevius%2Farticle%2FMark-Farrell-s-Housing-Not-Tents-measure-8328205.php%3Ft%3Db31956f26b>


          Password

EDIT

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.


          Password

CANCEL

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.

CURRENT PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Current password is incorrect

Current password field is required

NEW PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain both
upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

New password field is required

CONFIRM PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Confirm password field is required

Show password


    Welcome, !

Your profile, subscription, linked accounts, and newsletter selections
are not viewable by other readers on our sites. Your profile can only be
seen by you. Any comments you post to articles on our sites can be seen
by all readers and moderators.


          Newsletter Preferences

You are subscribed to the following:

  * Top O’ the Bay

    The latest stories from across the San Francisco Bay Area

  * Notes & Errata

    Mark Morford's irreverent and highly satiric weekly column

  * Breaking News

    Be notified when when big stories break or critical warnings are
    issued for the Bay Area

  * Sports

    Coverage of all your Bay Area teams

  * Inside Scoop

    Insider knowledge for Bay Area foodies

  * New Flicks

    The latest movie reviews

  * Business & Technology

    The latest in business, finance, and tech news

  * 5 Things To Do

    Great events across the Bay Area selected just for you


          San Francisco Chronicle Newsletters

  * Chronicle Commuter

    A curated selection of stories just in time for your afternoon commute

  * Membership Updates

    The latest from our membership benefits program (subscribers only)

  * e-edition Reminder

    Reminder of your daily e-edition, a replica of the print newspaper
    (subscribers only)

  * Subscription Reminders

    Notices and reminders about your subscription (subscribers only)


          Email Notifications and Offers

  * Feature Updates

    Special features, new site sections and more from The Chronicle and
    SFGATE

  * Promotions & Sales

    Subscription offers from the San Francisco Chronicle and other
    special promotions

  * Surveys

    Surveys about your Chronicle print edition, websites and other
    digital products

  * Advertiser Special Offers

    Receive special offers sent by us on behalf of select advertisers
    and partners

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in Forgot Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

You must be a subscriber to access this content.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

Stay signed in
Forgot Your Password?


          Sign In

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Back to Sign In

Email address field is required.

Email address is incorrect.

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


          Link Profiles

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot Your Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Forgot Your Password?


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Link Profiles

Stay signed in

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Forgot Your Password?


          SIGN IN


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot Your Password?
Keep me signed in


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Sign In With Your Existing San Francisco Chronicle Account
Sign In
OR

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Show password
Keep me signed in
Forgot Your Password?

By signing in, you agree to our terms of use
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/>.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password?

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in
Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot password?

Create an account

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a sign-in for your subscription account


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password

Have a profile on SFGate or San Francisco Chronicle already?

Sign In

Contact Customer Service at 800-310-2455 or email us at
homedelivery@sfchronicle.com <mailto:homedelivery@sfchronicle.com>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in

