  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * The Cannifornian

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

The Mercury News

<http://www.mercurynews.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local

    <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * The Cannifornian

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>


        Menlo Park charity touts its success in housing…
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/29/menlo-park-charity-touts-its-success-in-housing-the-homeless/>



Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/29/menlo-park-charity-touts-its-success-in-housing-the-homeless/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/29/menlo-park-charity-touts-its-success-in-housing-the-homeless/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/29/menlo-park-charity-touts-its-success-in-housing-the-homeless/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/29/menlo-park-charity-touts-its-success-in-housing-the-homeless/#print>
*

<#>

Trending:

  * Sherri Papini case
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/sherri-papini-consultant-asked-to-find-another-missing-california-mom/>

  * 49ers should’ve kept Smith
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/purdy-the-kap-vs-alex-argument-is-settled-and-its-become-obvious-the-49ers-made-the-wrong-choice/>

  * Kim K. to divorce?
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/is-kim-kardashian-plotting-to-divorce-kanye-west/>

  * Pitt vs. Jolie
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/brad-pitt-moves-to-seal-documents-in-angelina-jolie-custody-dispute/>

  * After cold snap, rain
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/bay-area-weather-after-cold-snap-rain-on-the-way/>

  * Bay Area poverty
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/more-bay-area-residents-struggling-than-poverty-statistics-indicate/>



News <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>


  Menlo Park charity touts its success in housing the homeless


Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/29/menlo-park-charity-touts-its-success-in-housing-the-homeless/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/29/menlo-park-charity-touts-its-success-in-housing-the-homeless/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/29/menlo-park-charity-touts-its-success-in-housing-the-homeless/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/29/menlo-park-charity-touts-its-success-in-housing-the-homeless/#print>
*

Harry is a resident at Haven Family House in Menlo Park, a facility run
by LifeMoves, a charity that supports working homeless people and helps
them get secure housing. Harry, a Vietnam War-era veteran and his
daughter Lilah, 7, are set to move into a new apartment complex in
Fremont in the near future. (Courtesy of LifeMoves)
Harry is a resident at Haven Family House in Menlo Park, a facility run
by LifeMoves, a charity that supports working homeless people and helps
them get secure housing. Harry, a Vietnam War-era veteran and his
daughter Lilah, 7, are set to move into a new apartment complex in
Fremont in the near future. (Courtesy of LifeMoves)

By Kevin Kelly <http://www.mercurynews.com/author/kevin-kelly/> |
kkelly@bayareanewsgroup.com <mailto:kkelly@bayareanewsgroup.com>	
PUBLISHED: June 29, 2016 at 10:28 am | UPDATED: August 11, 2016 at 11:38 pm

MENLO PARK — As the regional housing crisis deepens with no clear
solutions in sight, one local charity continues to find ways to house
the homeless.

LifeMoves compiled a report of recent success stories, in coordination
with a Bay Area-wide effort this week to build awareness of
homelessness. The Menlo Park organization, formerly known as InnVision
Shelter Network, provides homeless services in Santa Clara and San Mateo
counties.

For instance, LifeMoves housed Herminda, who fled an abusive husband
with her young daughter, while helping her find steady work and
ultimately securing housing for her and her daughter in Redwood City.

“My daughter is everything to me,” Herminda said in the report. “Thanks
to LifeMoves, I have a plan for our future.”

A family of four that temporarily relocated to the area while two
disabled children received emergency care at Lucile Packard Children’s
Hospital ran out of money when the treatment lasted longer than
expected. LifeMoves housed the family at its Haven Family House facility
while the parents developed a financial plan and saved up thousands of
dollars before recently moving to a three-bedroom house in Santa Clara
they can afford.

Harry, an Army veteran who served during the Vietnam War, became
homeless after a divorce followed by two heart attacks that left him
permanently disabled and separated from his 7-year-old daughter Lilah.

In February the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs referred him to
LifeMoves, which housed him and his daughter while he “stabilized his
medical condition,” then secured a part-time job as a substitute teacher
working with special needs children in Santa Clara County.

“His doctor has cleared him to go back to work; his health has improved
dramatically,” said Megan Gannon, Harry’s case worker. “We’ve been able
to enroll him in a program through SSVF (Supportive Services for
Veterans Families) to pay his first month’s rent and security deposit.”

He is set to move to a new apartment complex being built in Fremont for
at-risk veterans, after having saved roughly 30 percent of his income —
the estimated price for his rent — since February. Harry, who is in his
60s, also plans to pursue his passion for music with his newfound
independence.

Gannon said Lilah, who was an introvert who wouldn’t even talk to Gannon
when they first arrived, has built a community of friends her own age at
Haven House over the past few months.

“She’s very much like her father, she’s so happy,” Gannon said. “Her dad
always says he’s very blessed … and she’s definitely lit from within.”

Gannon, who has been a case worker at LifeMoves since last October, said
people often have a misconception about homelessness.

“A lot of people think people that are homeless are dirty people or drug
addicts, or just want to be on welfare and don’t want to work, and that
is absolutely not the case,” Gannon said. “They are people just like you
and I, they are human beings.”

Carolyn Hooper, LifeMoves’ marketing and communications manager, said
many of its clients have jobs but are homeless.

“Typically, these are clients that are working in the service industry
and the minimum wage — or near minimum wage — job just won’t make ends
meet,” she said.

Hooper acknowledged that many homeless people who are not veterans often
don’t know about LifeMoves, and some of them don’t want to be housed.
That is why LifeMoves has a homeless outreach team that provides support
to them on the street, as well as resources that can help them get back
on their feet.

“They do need to want the help,” she said.

Email Kevin Kelly at kkelly@bayareanewsgroup.com
<mailto:kkelly@bayareanewsgroup.com> or call him at 650-391-1049.

Review: Samsung Fixes the TV Remote
<http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>

Sponsored Content


        Review: Samsung Fixes the TV Remote
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>


By Samsung
<http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>

Geoffrey A. Fowler tests Samsung’s 2016 TVs, which have one smart
clicker to control all our cable boxes, disc players, video streamers
and apps


Kevin Kelly <http://www.mercurynews.com/author/kevin-kelly/>

Kevin Kelly is the reporter covering Menlo Park. He joined The Daily
News in 2005 as a copy editor and served as the copy desk chief before
the paper was reformed as a weekly.
Subscribe Today! All Access Digital offer for just 99 cents!
<https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dsssubscribe.aspx>
 
You Might Also Like

  *
    10 Best Rewards Cards: Get $150 Bonus Cashback 10 Best Rewards
    Cards: Get $150 Bonus Cashback GET.com
    <https://www.get.com/credit-cards-best-bonus-offers/?ad=outbrain_bonus_150&utm_medium=cpc&utm_source=outbrain_248358&utm_campaign=outbrain_bonus_150_69875867&oclid=7378e49885946409d131076d1528ca83>

  *
    Up To 50,000 Bonus Miles: Best Travel Credit Cards Up To 50,000
    Bonus Miles: Best Travel Credit Cards GET.com
    <https://www.get.com/10-best-airline-credit-cards/?ad=outbrain_airline_miles&utm_medium=cpc&utm_source=outbrain_248358&utm_campaign=outbrain_airline_miles_70153484&oclid=7378e49885946409d131076d1528ca83>

  *
    Why Apple is Killing the Swiss Watch Industry Why Apple is Killing
    the Swiss Watch Industry Creative State
    <https://creativestate.com/blog/Digital-Strategy-Call-with-Guest-John-Biggs>


  *
    Tips on How To Become a Manager Tips on How To Become a Manager CAL
    STATE MONTEREY BAY
    <https://mba.csumb.edu/blog/tips-on-how-to-become-a-manager?utm_source=Outbrain&utm_medium=Online%20Media&utm_campaign=CSUMB_Native>

  *
    Reach data quickly—anywhere, anytime—with the Intel® Xeon® processor
    E5 v4 family Reach data quickly—anywhere, anytime—with the Intel®…
    Intel Servers Rock
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/310019257;137043392;v>
  *
    Get a glimpse of an amazing future enabled by the data center in
    Servers Rock: Our Connected Earth Get a glimpse of an amazing future
    enabled by the data… Intel Servers Rock
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/310019250;137045041;h> 

  *
    Naomi Judd suffering from ‘extreme’ mental illness Naomi Judd
    suffering from ‘extreme’ mental illness MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/naomi-judd-suffering-from-extreme-mental-illness/>

  *
    Young San Jose man sentenced to 26 years to life after family’s
    emotional outpouring Young San Jose man sentenced to 26 years to
    life after… MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2014/12/12/young-san-jose-man-sentenced-to-26-years-to-life-after-familys-emotional-outpouring/>

  *
    Oakland fire victims: Young couple may have died embracing, parents
    believe Oakland fire victims: Young couple may have died…
    MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/oakland-fire-victims-young-couple-may-have-died-embracing-parents-believe/>


Recommended by<http://www.outbrain.com/what-is/default/en>

Sign up for our newsletters!

Subscribe <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
Follow Us

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>


    Most Popular

 1. Oakland fire aftermath: Evictions as artists’ worst fears come true

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/evictions-in-ghost-ships-wake-artists-worst-fears-coming-true/>

 2. Kim Kardashian is plotting to divorce Kanye West, one report says

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/is-kim-kardashian-plotting-to-divorce-kanye-west/>

 3. San Jose: Firefighters knock down abandoned home fire, suspect squatter

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-jose-firefighters-knock-down-abandoned-home-fire-suspect-squatter/>

 4. Oakland warehouse fire: Officials release names of 9 more victims

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/oakland-warehouse-fire-search-for-victims-85-percent-complete-death-toll-still-36/>

 5. Purdy: It’s now obvious the 49ers should have kept Smith, not
    Kaepernick

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/purdy-the-kap-vs-alex-argument-is-settled-and-its-become-obvious-the-49ers-made-the-wrong-choice/>

 6. Eddy Lepp free after 10-year sentence for growing marijuana

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/cannabis-convict-eddy-lepp-free-after-long-prison-term/>

 7. Sherri Papini ‘consultant’ asked to find another missing California mom

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/sherri-papini-consultant-asked-to-find-another-missing-california-mom/>

 8. Oakland: Artists, restaurant at odds over Salt Lick warehouse
    following deadly Ghost Ship blaze

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-artists-restaurant-at-odds-over-salt-lick-warehouse/>


OFF
ON

Aa
Aa
Aa
Aa

Error: Decode Error.
00:0002:02

  *

    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news...

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Responders talk about Oakland warehouse fire

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31711792&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news...

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>



        More videos:

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news conference
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Responders talk about Oakland warehouse fire
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31711792&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news conference
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Responders talk about Oakland warehouse fire
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31711792&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news conference
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Responders talk about Oakland warehouse fire
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31711792&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>



    More in News

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/flashing-crosswalks-bright-led-lights-being-installed-to-make-streets-safer/>

    Flashing crosswalks, bright LED lights being installed to make
    streets safer
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/flashing-crosswalks-bright-led-lights-being-installed-to-make-streets-safer/>



              Flashing crosswalks, bright LED lights being installed to
              make streets safer
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/flashing-crosswalks-bright-led-lights-being-installed-to-make-streets-safer/>


    December 07, 2016, 10:07 pm

    The streets in District 6 are becoming safer for bicyclists and
    pedestrians; Lincoln Avenue in Willow Glen is getting new LED street
    lights and several other areas are getting pedestrian-activated
    crosswalk lights. New decorative bike racks are also being added in
    Willow Glen and on The Alameda.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-fire-search-completed-while-cause-remains-a-mystery/>

    Five days after the most deadly fire in Oakland history ravaged an
    artists' labyrinthine lair in the Fruitvale District, killing 36
    people trapped in the smoke and flames as the top floor and roof
    gave way, firefighters wrapped up their search Wednesday, leaving
    federal and local investigators on scene to figure out what caused
    the so-called Ghost Ship to suddenly go up in flames.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-fire-search-completed-while-cause-remains-a-mystery/>



              Oakland fire search completed while cause remains a
              mystery
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-fire-search-completed-while-cause-remains-a-mystery/>


    December 07, 2016, 9:33 pm

    Five days after the most deadly fire in Oakland history ravaged an
    artists’ labyrinthine lair in the Fruitvale District, killing 36
    people trapped in the smoke and flames as the top floor and roof
    gave way, firefighters wrapped up their search Wednesday, leaving
    federal and local investigators on scene to figure out what caused
    the so-called Ghost Ship to suddenly...

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-mateo-fatal-fire-ruled-arson/>

    A three-alarm fire at a house where a woman was found dead last
    month was intentionally set, police said Wednesday.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-mateo-fatal-fire-ruled-arson/>



              San Mateo: Fatal fire ruled arson
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-mateo-fatal-fire-ruled-arson/>


    December 07, 2016, 7:04 pm

    A three-alarm fire at a house where a woman was found dead last
    month was intentionally set, police said Wednesday.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/berkeleys-pioneering-cafe-rouge-closing-after-20-years/>

    The restaurant-butcher shop combination was a Bay Area first.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/berkeleys-pioneering-cafe-rouge-closing-after-20-years/>



              Berkeley’s pioneering Cafe Rouge closing after 20 years
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/berkeleys-pioneering-cafe-rouge-closing-after-20-years/>


    December 07, 2016, 5:17 pm

    The restaurant-butcher shop combination was a Bay Area first.

  * Member Services <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
  * News Alerts <https://digioh.com/BANG/general?source=TakeAction>

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>

  * Subscribe

    <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx?pid=22>

    <#>
      o Manage Your Subscription <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
      o All Access Subscriptions <http://www.bayareanewsaccess.com/>
      o Today’s e-Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
      o Newsletter Sign-Up <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
      o Mobile Apps <http://www.mercurynews.com/mobile/>
  * Contact Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/contact-us/>

    <#>
      o Corrections <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/corrections/>
      o Reprints <http://www.mercurynews.com/reprints/>
      o Archive Search <http://www.mercurynews.com/archive-search/>
      o Lottery <http://www.mercurynews.com/lottery/>
  * Classifieds

    <http://marketplace.bayareanewsgroup.com/marketplace/>

    <#>
      o Autos <http://www.norcaldrives.com/>
      o Jobs <http://www.mercurynews.com/jobs/>
      o Real Estate <http://realestate.mercurynews.com/>
      o Place an Obituary
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
      o Place a Legal Ad
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/legals/index.html>
  * Advertise With Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/advertise/>

    <#>
      o Today’s Ads <http://ads.mercurynews.com/>
      o Weekly Ads <http://www.mercurynews.com/weekly-ads/>
      o Local Guide <http://mylocal.mercurynews.com/>
      o Fry’s Ad
        <http://newspaperads.mercurynews.com/FSI/tiles.aspx?advid=200177&loc=53824>
      o Public Notices <http://capublicnotice.com/>

  * © 2016 Digital First Media <http://www.digitalfirstmedia.com/>
  * Site Map <http://www.mercurynews.com/sitemap.xml>
  * Copyright <http://www.mercurynews.com/copyright/>
  * Privacy Policy <http://www.mercurynews.com/privacy-policy/>
  * Arbitration
    <http://local.digitalfirstmedia.com/common/dfm/arbitration.pdf>
  * Powered by WordPress.com VIP <https://vip.wordpress.com/>
  * Bay Area News Group

    <http://www.bayareanewsgroup.com/>

Quantcast
Quantcast


      Email This Article

Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel

<#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

:)
