  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * The Cannifornian

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

The Mercury News

<http://www.mercurynews.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local

    <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * The Cannifornian

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>


        Mercury News editorial: Ending homelessness…
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/mercury-news-editorial-ending-homelessness-will-mean-helping-those-on-the-verge/>



Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/mercury-news-editorial-ending-homelessness-will-mean-helping-those-on-the-verge/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/mercury-news-editorial-ending-homelessness-will-mean-helping-those-on-the-verge/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/mercury-news-editorial-ending-homelessness-will-mean-helping-those-on-the-verge/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/mercury-news-editorial-ending-homelessness-will-mean-helping-those-on-the-verge/#print>
*

<#>

Trending:

  * Sherri Papini case
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/sherri-papini-consultant-asked-to-find-another-missing-california-mom/>

  * 49ers should’ve kept Smith
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/purdy-the-kap-vs-alex-argument-is-settled-and-its-become-obvious-the-49ers-made-the-wrong-choice/>

  * Kim K. to divorce?
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/is-kim-kardashian-plotting-to-divorce-kanye-west/>

  * Pitt vs. Jolie
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/brad-pitt-moves-to-seal-documents-in-angelina-jolie-custody-dispute/>

  * After cold snap, rain
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/bay-area-weather-after-cold-snap-rain-on-the-way/>

  * Bay Area poverty
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/more-bay-area-residents-struggling-than-poverty-statistics-indicate/>



            Opinion <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>Editorials
<http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/editorials/>


  Mercury News editorial: Ending homelessness will mean helping those on
  the verge


Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/mercury-news-editorial-ending-homelessness-will-mean-helping-those-on-the-verge/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/mercury-news-editorial-ending-homelessness-will-mean-helping-those-on-the-verge/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/mercury-news-editorial-ending-homelessness-will-mean-helping-those-on-the-verge/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/mercury-news-editorial-ending-homelessness-will-mean-helping-those-on-the-verge/#print>
*

Workers contracted by PG&E begin clean up of a homeless encampment in
their right of way behind Tortola Way in San Jose, Calif., on Monday,
April 18, 2016. (Gary Reyes/Bay Area News Group)
Workers contracted by PG&E begin clean up of a homeless encampment in
their right of way behind Tortola Way in San Jose, Calif., on Monday,
April 18, 2016. (Gary Reyes/Bay Area News Group)

By Mercury News Editorial
<http://www.mercurynews.com/author/mercury-news-editorial/>	
PUBLISHED: June 28, 2016 at 11:32 am | UPDATED: August 12, 2016 at 12:25 am

If there’s one myth about the homeless that Wednesday’s Bay Area news
blitz on the crisis should explode, it’s this: The people living in
squalor on our streets and along creeks want to be there.

They weren’t born homeless. Some were once part of Silicon Valley’s
prosperity. Many were dragged down by health problems, drugs or alcohol,
or PTSD from the wars they fought for us. Some were simply blindsided by
a family illness that bankrupted them.

The vast majority, when placed in supportive housing, stay. At a
minimum, this has a lower public cost. At best, individuals control or
overcome their problems, get jobs and rebuild their lives. Look at
Downtown Streets Team, which guides the homeless into volunteer work,
then paying jobs and a place to live.

This will be a recurring theme in the SF Homeless Project Media Day on
Wednesday, when more than 70 multimedia news organizations spearheaded
by the San Francisco Chronicle will focus on solutions to what has
seemed an intractable problem.

Santa Clara County is ramping up housing plans with partners such as
Abode Services, Palantir — the data analytics giant whose pro-bono work
is described in a column on this page — and a number of cities,
including San Jose.

But there’s an aspect of this crisis with no answer in sight: how to
stop the slide of lower-income Silicon Valley residents into homelessness.

In this high-cost region, it doesn’t take much to land retirees on fixed
incomes or families and individuals in crisis onto the streets. And once
people are homeless, it’s exponentially harder to get them back into
housing, let alone jobs. You won’t ace a job interview when you can’t
take a shower first.

The challenge became graphic in San Jose this week: The same day the
county supervisors voted to put an affordable housing bond on the
ballot, San Jose approved a plan to tear down 216 rent-controlled
apartments and develop a much larger — but market-rate — complex.

It’s not a simple good-bad contrast. The development plan in San Jose
complied with city zoning and planning requirements; increasing housing
in appropriate places is critical to the long-term economic health of
the valley. But still, there’s no denying the irony.

Housing the homeless is the right thing to do for both financial and
humanitarian reasons. But the cycle will continue until we find ways to
help people living on the edge to stay in their homes.

Review: Samsung Fixes the TV Remote
<http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>

Sponsored Content


        Review: Samsung Fixes the TV Remote
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>


By Samsung
<http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>

Geoffrey A. Fowler tests Samsung’s 2016 TVs, which have one smart
clicker to control all our cable boxes, disc players, video streamers
and apps

  * Tags: 
  * Editorials <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/editorials/>


      Mercury News Editorial
<http://www.mercurynews.com/author/mercury-news-editorial/>

Subscribe Today! All Access Digital offer for just 99 cents!
<https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dsssubscribe.aspx>
 
You Might Also Like

  *
    Melania Trump: These 36 Photos Will Have You Wondering Whether She’s
    First Lady Material Melania Trump: These 36 Photos Will Have You
    Wondering… True Activist
    <http://www.trueactivist.com/melania-trump-these-36-photos-will-have-you-wondering-whether-shes-first-lady-material-gallery?utm_source=OB&utm_medium=CPC6&utm_campaign=melaniatrump36firstlady-V6OB&utm_source=OB&utm_medium=CPC&utm_campaign=melaniatrump36firstlady-V6OB>

  *
    Building Successful Salespeople: 7 Skills You Can Teach Building
    Successful Salespeople: 7 Skills You Can Teach Salesforce
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/314701428;142502725;t>
  *
    Tips on How To Become a Manager Tips on How To Become a Manager CAL
    STATE MONTEREY BAY
    <https://mba.csumb.edu/blog/tips-on-how-to-become-a-manager?utm_source=Outbrain&utm_medium=Online%20Media&utm_campaign=CSUMB_Native>


  *
    Fascinating Story How Gwen Got Back On ‘The Voice’ Fascinating Story
    How Gwen Got Back On ‘The Voice’ Fans Fans
    <http://www.fansfans.com/saying-bye-miley-gwen-stefani-prepares-make-return-voice/>

  *
    Get a glimpse of an amazing future enabled by the data center in
    Servers Rock: Our Connected Earth Get a glimpse of an amazing future
    enabled by the data… Intel Servers Rock
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/310019250;137045041;h>
  *
    10 Best Rewards Cards: Get $150 Bonus Cashback 10 Best Rewards
    Cards: Get $150 Bonus Cashback GET.com
    <https://www.get.com/credit-cards-best-bonus-offers/?ad=outbrain_bonus_150&utm_medium=cpc&utm_source=outbrain_248358&utm_campaign=outbrain_bonus_150_69875867&oclid=4ffa46cc64ac424cedefcfc9dd6c52a9>


  *
    Is Selena Gomez responsible for Angelina Jolie divorcing Brad Pitt?
    Is Selena Gomez responsible for Angelina Jolie… MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/09/21/is-selena-gomez-responsible-for-angelina-jolie-divorcing-brad-pitt/>

  *
    Robin Williams’ widow details his mental disintegration Robin
    Williams’ widow details his mental disintegration MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/10/03/robin-williams-widow-details-his-mental-disintegration/>

  *
    Tulsa police officer charged in Terence Crutcher’s death Tulsa
    police officer charged in Terence Crutcher’s… MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/09/22/tulsa-police-officer-charged-in-mans-death/>


Recommended by<http://www.outbrain.com/what-is/default/en>
blog comments powered by Disqus <http://disqus.com/>

Sign up for our newsletters!

Subscribe <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
Follow Us

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>


    Most Popular

 1. Oakland fire aftermath: Evictions as artists’ worst fears come true

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/evictions-in-ghost-ships-wake-artists-worst-fears-coming-true/>

 2. Kim Kardashian is plotting to divorce Kanye West, one report says

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/is-kim-kardashian-plotting-to-divorce-kanye-west/>

 3. San Jose: Firefighters knock down abandoned home fire, suspect squatter

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-jose-firefighters-knock-down-abandoned-home-fire-suspect-squatter/>

 4. Oakland warehouse fire: Officials release names of 9 more victims

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/oakland-warehouse-fire-search-for-victims-85-percent-complete-death-toll-still-36/>

 5. Purdy: It’s now obvious the 49ers should have kept Smith, not
    Kaepernick

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/purdy-the-kap-vs-alex-argument-is-settled-and-its-become-obvious-the-49ers-made-the-wrong-choice/>

 6. Eddy Lepp free after 10-year sentence for growing marijuana

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/cannabis-convict-eddy-lepp-free-after-long-prison-term/>

 7. Sherri Papini ‘consultant’ asked to find another missing California mom

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/sherri-papini-consultant-asked-to-find-another-missing-california-mom/>

 8. Oakland: Artists, restaurant at odds over Salt Lick warehouse
    following deadly Ghost Ship blaze

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-artists-restaurant-at-odds-over-salt-lick-warehouse/>


OFF
ON

Aa
Aa
Aa
Aa

00:0002:02

  *

    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news...

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Responders talk about Oakland warehouse fire

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31711792&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news...

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>



        More videos:

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news conference
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Responders talk about Oakland warehouse fire
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31711792&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news conference
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Responders talk about Oakland warehouse fire
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31711792&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news conference
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Responders talk about Oakland warehouse fire
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31711792&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>



    More in Opinion

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/cepeda-media-still-talking-down-to-people-of-the-heartland/>

    The media are covering the Trump states more often, but they're
    talking down to the people they say they want to pay attention to.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/cepeda-media-still-talking-down-to-people-of-the-heartland/>



              Cepeda: Media still talking down to people of the
              Heartland
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/cepeda-media-still-talking-down-to-people-of-the-heartland/>


    December 07, 2016, 7:07 pm

    The media are covering the Trump states more often, but they’re
    talking down to the people they say they want to pay attention to.
    3

    <#comments>

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/will-with-carrier-trump-tramples-conservative-values/>

    By paying public money to coerce Carrier to keep some of its jobs in
    Indiana, Donald Trump and Mike Pence trampled free market principles
    and showed themselves to be no more conservative than Barack Obama.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/will-with-carrier-trump-tramples-conservative-values/>



              Will: With Carrier, Trump tramples conservative values
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/will-with-carrier-trump-tramples-conservative-values/>


    December 07, 2016, 5:22 pm

    By paying public money to coerce Carrier to keep some of its jobs in
    Indiana, Donald Trump and Mike Pence trampled free market principles
    and showed themselves to be no more conservative than Barack Obama.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/editorial-contra-costa-district-attorney-should-resign/>

    Contra Costa DA Mark Peterson's illegal use of $66,372 of campaign
    funds for personal expenses was an egregious breach of state rules
    by the county's top law enforcement official.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/editorial-contra-costa-district-attorney-should-resign/>



              Editorial: Contra Costa district attorney should resign
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/editorial-contra-costa-district-attorney-should-resign/>


    December 07, 2016, 11:16 am

    Contra Costa DA Mark Peterson’s illegal use of $66,372 of campaign
    funds for personal expenses was an egregious breach of state rules
    by the county’s top law enforcement official.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/nasol-mann-nguyen-evergreen-college-land-can-provide-education-revenue/>

    Board members say the Evergreen College 27 acres that neighbors want
    to preserve for education can better be used for commercial space
    and can pay rent to support education.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/nasol-mann-nguyen-evergreen-college-land-can-provide-education-revenue/>



              Nasol, Mann, Nguyen: Evergreen College land can provide
              education revenue
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/nasol-mann-nguyen-evergreen-college-land-can-provide-education-revenue/>


    December 07, 2016, 9:29 am

    Board members say the Evergreen College 27 acres that neighbors want
    to preserve for education can better be used for commercial space
    and can pay rent to support education.

  * Member Services <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
  * News Alerts <https://digioh.com/BANG/general?source=TakeAction>

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>

  * Subscribe

    <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx?pid=22>

    <#>
      o Manage Your Subscription <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
      o All Access Subscriptions <http://www.bayareanewsaccess.com/>
      o Today’s e-Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
      o Newsletter Sign-Up <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
      o Mobile Apps <http://www.mercurynews.com/mobile/>
  * Contact Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/contact-us/>

    <#>
      o Corrections <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/corrections/>
      o Reprints <http://www.mercurynews.com/reprints/>
      o Archive Search <http://www.mercurynews.com/archive-search/>
      o Lottery <http://www.mercurynews.com/lottery/>
  * Classifieds

    <http://marketplace.bayareanewsgroup.com/marketplace/>

    <#>
      o Autos <http://www.norcaldrives.com/>
      o Jobs <http://www.mercurynews.com/jobs/>
      o Real Estate <http://realestate.mercurynews.com/>
      o Place an Obituary
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
      o Place a Legal Ad
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/legals/index.html>
  * Advertise With Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/advertise/>

    <#>
      o Today’s Ads <http://ads.mercurynews.com/>
      o Weekly Ads <http://www.mercurynews.com/weekly-ads/>
      o Local Guide <http://mylocal.mercurynews.com/>
      o Fry’s Ad
        <http://newspaperads.mercurynews.com/FSI/tiles.aspx?advid=200177&loc=53824>
      o Public Notices <http://capublicnotice.com/>

  * © 2016 Digital First Media <http://www.digitalfirstmedia.com/>
  * Site Map <http://www.mercurynews.com/sitemap.xml>
  * Copyright <http://www.mercurynews.com/copyright/>
  * Privacy Policy <http://www.mercurynews.com/privacy-policy/>
  * Arbitration
    <http://local.digitalfirstmedia.com/common/dfm/arbitration.pdf>
  * Powered by WordPress.com VIP <https://vip.wordpress.com/>
  * Bay Area News Group

    <http://www.bayareanewsgroup.com/>

:)


      Email This Article

Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel

<#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

Quantcast
Quantcast
