  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * TheCannifornian.com

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

The Mercury News

<http://www.mercurynews.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local

    <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * TheCannifornian.com

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>


        Mercury News editorial: Homeless in Santa Clara…
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/24/mercury-news-editorial-homeless-in-santa-clara-county-its-not-hopeless/>



Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/24/mercury-news-editorial-homeless-in-santa-clara-county-its-not-hopeless/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/24/mercury-news-editorial-homeless-in-santa-clara-county-its-not-hopeless/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/24/mercury-news-editorial-homeless-in-santa-clara-county-its-not-hopeless/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/24/mercury-news-editorial-homeless-in-santa-clara-county-its-not-hopeless/#print>
*

<#>

Trending:

  * Megyn Kelly on Trump
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/megyn-kelly-says-its-important-people-learn-of-trumps-actions/>

  * Kaepernick’s bad example
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/editorial-kaepernick-sets-horrible-example-by-refusing-to-vote/>

  * Sheen’s ex, children missing
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/police-searching-for-charlie-sheens-ex-and-their-children/>

  * Tacolicious opens
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/tacolicious-opens-its-san-josesantana-row-outpost/>

  * National monuments v. GOP
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/republicans-seek-to-rein-in-national-monuments-as-trump-takes-power/>

  * Taylor Swift photo leaked
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/14/taylor-swift-sealed-photo-hits-the-internet/>



            Opinion <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>Editorials
<http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/editorials/>


  Mercury News editorial: Homeless in Santa Clara County? It’s not hopeless


Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/24/mercury-news-editorial-homeless-in-santa-clara-county-its-not-hopeless/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/24/mercury-news-editorial-homeless-in-santa-clara-county-its-not-hopeless/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/24/mercury-news-editorial-homeless-in-santa-clara-county-its-not-hopeless/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/24/mercury-news-editorial-homeless-in-santa-clara-county-its-not-hopeless/#print>
*

An example of a "tiny home" for the homeless at a recent demonstration
at San Jose City Hall.
An example of a “tiny home” for the homeless at a recent demonstration
at San Jose City Hall.

By Mercury News Editorial
<http://www.mercurynews.com/author/mercury-news-editorial/>	
PUBLISHED: June 24, 2016 at 9:00 am | UPDATED: August 11, 2016 at 11:10 pm

This week begins a media blitz in the Bay Area on homelessness —
specifically how to end the social plague that afflicts the individuals
and families on the streets as well as the communities that wish they
could help, or at least wish the problem would go away.

Go away it can. Contrary to popular (though illogical) belief, most
homeless people would greatly prefer a roof over their heads instead of
wintering outdoors under a tarp. Based on experience in Santa Clara
County, 84 percent of the individuals placed in “supportive housing,”
which includes medical, mental health and other services, stay there.

And guess what — providing that housing is cheaper for county taxpayers
than paying for emergency room visits and other high-cost services no
longer needed when regular care and prescribed medication are available.

You will find it hard to ignore homelessness on Wednesday, a media blitz
day planned by more than 60 organizations around the Bay, from Buzzfeed
to KQED, including The Mercury News. San Francisco Chronicle Editor
Audrey Cooper spearheaded the idea for a solutions-focused blitz that
became the SF Homeless Project.

South Bay counties are different from SF, of course, in their balance of
urban-suburban neighborhoods and in the way the homeless affect them. In
San Francisco, many are concentrated downtown and are hard to miss by
visitors. In more suburban San Jose, many gravitate toward camps in
creekbeds and the like.

But the fundamental principles of how to get people off the streets,
keep them in housing and save taxpayers money — really — are the same.

Basically, it’s Housing First, getting people into homes rather than
temporary shelters; supportive housing facilities run by nonprofits with
the services people need readily available; and a preventive strategy to
help individuals and families on the verge of homelessness, perhaps
because of losing a job, to keep their apartments. This, too, is cheaper
in the long run.

In a column below, Jennifer Loving, the tireless director of
Destination: Home, explains the math and the research that led to these
conclusions better than we can.

This week other writers will discuss different aspects of the challenge
to help the more than 6,000 men, women and children who are homeless in
Santa Clara County on any given night find real homes and achieve
stable, healthier lives. We’ll learn how public-private partnerships are
key — particularly the sophisticated data analytics platform designed
for the county by Palo Alto-based Palantir.

Santa Clara County has something we’re told San Francisco lacks: a truly
unified approach to homelessness, with service providers, cities and the
county all working together. But to really make headway, residents have
to understand it more fully. That’s how this week’s media blitz can help.

  * Tags: 
  * Editorials <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/editorials/>


      Mercury News Editorial
<http://www.mercurynews.com/author/mercury-news-editorial/>

Subscribe Today! All Access Digital offer for just 99 cents!
<https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dsssubscribe.aspx>
 
You Might Also Like

  *
    15 Beers You Should Stop Drinking Immediately 15 Beers You Should
    Stop Drinking Immediately True Activist
    <http://www.trueactivist.com/beer-warning-15-beers-to-stop-drinking-immediately/?utm_source=OB&utm_medium=CPC&utm_campaign=BeersToStopDrinkingOBv3&utm_source=OB&utm_medium=CPC&utm_campaign=BeersToStopDrinkingOB>

  *
    Only 1 in 10 People Can Name All These Corporate Logos Only 1 in 10
    People Can Name All These Corporate Logos Offbeat
    <http://offbeat.topix.com/quiz/17314?utm_source=outbrain&utm_campaign=17314&tpx_term=JMCHC7FNDF1S1SIL&cvar=t3:i-square-PPVRESH856H1TS5Q&utm_medium=248358>

  *
    Don’t Buy Another Car Until You’ve Seen These. Search Luxury Sedans
    Don’t Buy Another Car Until You’ve Seen These. Search… Check.In
    <http://forcheck.in/step-into-the-future-top-luxury-sedans-of-2016/?utm_source=outbrain&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=sedan-mob-us-1&utm_content=sedan&utm_term=sedan>

  *
    Unnerving Photos Taken One Second Before Tragedy Unnerving Photos
    Taken One Second Before Tragedy Trend Chaser
    <http://www.trend-chaser.com/trending/unreal-photos-tragic-moments/?utm_campaign=upt-d-us-160815-tc-ob&utm_medium=cpc&utm_term=248358-Unreal+Photos+Taken+Before+the+Most+Tragic+Moments-tiger.jpg&utm_source=ob&utm_content=27529d-64693569>


  *
    Strange Cat Facts: Why Does My Cat Sleep On My Head Strange Cat
    Facts: Why Does My Cat Sleep On My Head Pet MD
    <http://www.petmd.com/cat/care/evr_ct_why-does-my-cat-sleep-on-my-head?utm_source=outbrain&utm_medium=PaidContent&utm_campaign=Media-petMD-CatCareCenter&utm_content=Strange+Cat+Facts%3A+Why+Does+My+Cat+Sleep+On+My+H>

  *
    Missing Teens Unsolved For 15 Years, Until Police Uncover Truth...
    Missing Teens Unsolved For 15 Years, Until Police… LifeDaily
    <http://www.lifedaily.com/police-unearth-strange-new-evidence-in-case-of-two-missing-oklahoma-girls/source/outbrain/#utm_medium=referral&utm_source=outbrain&utm_term=248358&utm_campaign=OB-OklahomaGirls>

  *
    What Did People Eat in the 1800s? What Did People Eat in the 1800s?
    Ancestry
    <http://www.ancestry.com/s65604/t32825/rd.ashx?utm_source=outbrain&utm_term=248358>

  *
    28 Photos You Have To See Before Voting Republican 28 Photos You
    Have To See Before Voting Republican Detonate
    <http://adrzr.com/54md?utm_source=9v1-2&utm_campaign=9v1-2_US_desktop_trumpfamily_12_54md_20160811_jw_3425&utm_term=248358&utm_source=9v1&utm_campaign=9v1_US_desktop_trumpfamily_12_54md_20160811_rr_3425&utm_term=248358>


Recommended by<http://www.outbrain.com/what-is/default/en>

Sign up for our newsletters!

Subscribe <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
Follow Us

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>


    Most Popular

 1. Promising young life cut short in Saratoga crash

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/promising-young-life-cut-short-in-saratoga-crash/>

 2. Free admission to 116 California state parks on Friday after
    Thanksgiving

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/free-admission-to-116-california-state-parks-on-friday-after-thanksgiving/>

 3. Review: Metallica roars on “Hardwired … to Self-Destruct”

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/review-metallica-roars-on-hardwired-to-self-destruct/>

 4. Vietnam War veterans attacked by rare cancer linked to liver flukes

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/vietnam-war-veterans-attacked-by-rare-cancer-linked-to-liver-flukes/>

 5. Warriors GM Bob Myers: “We’re not trading Klay (Thompson)”

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/warriors-gm-bob-myers-were-not-trading-klay-thompson/>

 6. Drake on Kevin Durant’s move: “I’m happy to see my friend happy”

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/drake-on-kevin-durants-move-im-happy-to-see-my-friend-happy/>

 7. San Jose teacher allegedly threatens student with deportation under
    Trump

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/san-jose-teacher-allegedly-threatens-student-with-deportation-under-trump/>

 8. Raiders: Tommie Smith will light Al Davis torch in Mexico City

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/raiders-tommie-smith-will-light-al-davis-torch-in-mexico-city/>


  *

    Palo Alto: 'Grandma's' basement holds lure for new startups

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31630060&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Bay Area jazz icon Larry Vuckovich celebrates 80th birthday

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31634819&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Hands Around Lake Merritt in Oakland, California

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31631109&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Palo Alto: 'Grandma's' basement holds lure for new startups

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31630060&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Bay Area jazz icon Larry Vuckovich celebrates 80th birthday

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31634819&playlistId=18873>



        More videos:

  *
    Bay Area jazz icon Larry Vuckovich celebrates 80th birthday
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31634819&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Hands Around Lake Merritt in Oakland, California
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31631109&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Palo Alto: 'Grandma's' basement holds lure for new startups
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31630060&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Bay Area jazz icon Larry Vuckovich celebrates 80th birthday
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31634819&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Hands Around Lake Merritt in Oakland, California
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31631109&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Palo Alto: 'Grandma's' basement holds lure for new startups
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31630060&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Bay Area jazz icon Larry Vuckovich celebrates 80th birthday
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31634819&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Hands Around Lake Merritt in Oakland, California
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31631109&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Palo Alto: 'Grandma's' basement holds lure for new startups
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31630060&playlistId=18873>



    More in Opinion

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/editorial-abolish-the-electoral-college/>

    Popular vote is a far more democratic method of electing the president
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/editorial-abolish-the-electoral-college/>



              Editorial: Abolish the Electoral College
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/editorial-abolish-the-electoral-college/>


    November 16, 2016, 3:20 pm

    Popular vote is a far more democratic method of electing the president
    14

    <#comments>

  *

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/cartoons-dakota-access-pipeline-protests/>

    For months, activists have been protesting in North Dakota over a
    plan to build a pipeline below the Missouri River.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/cartoons-dakota-access-pipeline-protests/>



              Cartoons: Dakota Access Pipeline protests
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/cartoons-dakota-access-pipeline-protests/>


    November 16, 2016, 11:08 am

    For months, activists have been protesting in North Dakota over a
    plan to build a pipeline below the Missouri River.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/pitts-time-to-take-back-our-country/>

    It's time to take back OUR country
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/pitts-time-to-take-back-our-country/>



              Pitts: Time to take back OUR country
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/pitts-time-to-take-back-our-country/>


    November 16, 2016, 9:08 am

    It’s time to take back OUR country
    3

    <#comments>

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/will-draw-the-curtain-on-democrats-pointless-gestures/>

    Draw the curtain on Democrats' pointless gestures
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/will-draw-the-curtain-on-democrats-pointless-gestures/>



              Will: Draw the curtain on Democrats’ pointless gestures
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/16/will-draw-the-curtain-on-democrats-pointless-gestures/>


    November 16, 2016, 8:51 am

    Draw the curtain on Democrats’ pointless gestures
    1

    <#comments>

  * Member Services <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
  * News Alerts <https://digioh.com/BANG/general?source=TakeAction>

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>

  * Subscribe

    <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx?pid=22>

    <#>
      o Manage Your Subscription <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
      o All Access Subscriptions <http://www.bayareanewsaccess.com/>
      o Today’s e-Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
      o Newsletter Sign-Up <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
      o Mobile Apps <http://www.mercurynews.com/mobile/>
  * Contact Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/contact-us/>

    <#>
      o Corrections <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/corrections/>
      o Reprints <http://www.mercurynews.com/reprints/>
      o Archive Search <http://www.mercurynews.com/archive-search/>
      o Lottery <http://www.mercurynews.com/lottery/>
  * Classifieds

    <http://marketplace.bayareanewsgroup.com/marketplace/>

    <#>
      o Autos <http://www.norcaldrives.com/>
      o Jobs <http://www.mercurynews.com/jobs/>
      o Real Estate <http://realestate.mercurynews.com/>
      o Place an Obituary
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
      o Place a Legal Ad
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/legals/index.html>
  * Advertise With Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/advertise/>

    <#>
      o Today’s Ads <http://ads.mercurynews.com/>
      o Weekly Ads <http://www.mercurynews.com/weekly-ads/>
      o Local Guide <http://mylocal.mercurynews.com/>
      o Fry’s Ad
        <http://newspaperads.mercurynews.com/FSI/tiles.aspx?advid=200177&loc=53824>
      o Public Notices <http://capublicnotice.com/>

  * © 2016 Digital First Media <http://www.digitalfirstmedia.com/>
  * Site Map <http://www.mercurynews.com/sitemap.xml>
  * Copyright <http://www.mercurynews.com/copyright/>
  * Privacy Policy <http://www.mercurynews.com/privacy-policy/>
  * Powered by WordPress.com VIP <https://vip.wordpress.com/>
  * Bay Area News Group

    <http://www.bayareanewsgroup.com/>

:)


      Email This Article

Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel

<#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

Quantcast
