  * //Search

    <http://www.sfweekly.com/search/>
  * Home

    <http://www.sfweekly.com/>
  * News

    <http://www.sfweekly.com/news/>
      o The Snitch

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/snitch/>
      o Chem Tales

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/chemtales/>
      o Sucka Free City

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/suckafreecity/>
  * Music

    <http://www.sfweekly.com/category/music/>
      o All Shook Down

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/allshookdown/>
      o Hear This

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/hearthis/>
      o Some Thoughts Of A Certain Sound

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/somethoughtsofacertainsound/>
  * Dining

    <http://www.sfweekly.com/dining/>
      o SFoodie

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/sfoodie/>
  * Calendar

    <http://archives.sfweekly.com/sanfrancisco/EventSearch?narrowByDate=Today>

      o Night&Day

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/category/calendar/nightday/>
  * Culture

    <http://www.sfweekly.com/culture/>
      o The Exhibitionist

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/theexhibitionist/>
      o Know Your Street Art

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/knowyourstreetart/>
      o The Whore Next Door

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/thewhorenextdoor/>
  * Slideshows

    <http://www.sfweekly.com/category/slideshows/>
  * Best of San Francisco

    <http://www.sfweekly.com/category/best-of-san-francisco/>
  * Email Newsletters

    <http://www.sfweekly.com/newsletters/>
  * Free Stuff

    <http://www.sfweekly.com/category/freestuff/>
  * Privacy Policy

    <http://www.sfweekly.com/privacy-policy/>
  * SF Weekly Terms of Use

    <http://www.sfweekly.com/sf-weekly-terms-use/>
  * Archives

    <http://archives.sfweekly.com/>
  * Search

    <http://www.sfweekly.com/search/>

  * //Menu

    <#>
      o //Search

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/search/>
      o Home

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/>
      o News

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/news/>
          + The Snitch

            <http://www.sfweekly.com/snitch/>
          + Chem Tales

            <http://www.sfweekly.com/chemtales/>
          + Sucka Free City

            <http://www.sfweekly.com/suckafreecity/>
      o Music

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/category/music/>
          + All Shook Down

            <http://www.sfweekly.com/allshookdown/>
          + Hear This

            <http://www.sfweekly.com/hearthis/>
          + Some Thoughts Of A Certain Sound

            <http://www.sfweekly.com/somethoughtsofacertainsound/>
      o Dining

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/dining/>
          + SFoodie

            <http://www.sfweekly.com/sfoodie/>
      o Calendar

        <http://archives.sfweekly.com/sanfrancisco/EventSearch?narrowByDate=Today>

          + Night&Day

            <http://www.sfweekly.com/category/calendar/nightday/>
      o Culture

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/culture/>
          + The Exhibitionist

            <http://www.sfweekly.com/theexhibitionist/>
          + Know Your Street Art

            <http://www.sfweekly.com/knowyourstreetart/>
          + The Whore Next Door

            <http://www.sfweekly.com/thewhorenextdoor/>
      o Slideshows

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/category/slideshows/>
      o Best of San Francisco

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/category/best-of-san-francisco/>
      o Email Newsletters

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/newsletters/>
      o Free Stuff

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/category/freestuff/>
      o Privacy Policy

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/privacy-policy/>
      o SF Weekly Terms of Use

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/sf-weekly-terms-use/>
      o Archives

        <http://archives.sfweekly.com/>
      o Search

        <http://www.sfweekly.com/search/>

<http://www.sfweekly.com/>

  *

    <https://www.facebook.com/sfweekly/>
  *

    <https://twitter.com/sfweekly/>
  *

    <https://www.instagram.com/sfweekly/>

<http://www.sfweekly.com/>

  * SF Weekly

    <http://www.sfweekly.com/>


  Millennial Problems: Solutions to Homelessness

  * By Max DeNike
  * Thu Jun 30th, 2016 12:45pm
  * News <http://www.sfweekly.com/news/>The Snitch
    <http://www.sfweekly.com/snitch/>

  *

    <http://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfweekly.com%2Fnews%2Fmillennial-problems-solutions-to-homelessness%2F>
  *

    <http://twitter.com/home?status=Millennial+Problems%3A+Solutions+to+Homelessness+-+http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfweekly.com%2Fnews%2Fmillennial-problems-solutions-to-homelessness%2F>
  *

    <http://reddit.com/submit?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfweekly.com%2Fnews%2Fmillennial-problems-solutions-to-homelessness%2F&title=Millennial+Problems%3A+Solutions+to+Homelessness>
  *

    <mailto:?subject=Millennial%20Problems%3A%20Solutions%20to%20Homelessness&ampsubject=Millennial%20Problems%3A%20Solutions%20to%20Homelessness&body=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfweekly.com%2Fnews%2Fmillennial-problems-solutions-to-homelessness%2F>
  *

    <javascript:window.print();>
  *

    <http://www.sfweekly.com/news/millennial-problems-solutions-to-homelessness/comments/>

homelessandcart

Wednesday marked a big day for local media. In a coordinated effort,
nearly every organization that covers San Francisco in some form
dedicated a lot to a little coverage of what it’s like to experience
homelessness and what can be done about something that almost everyone,
*including Bernie Sanders <http://bit.ly/297YZo8>*, says is a problem here.

The results were mixed, and Gizmodo — which produces content that’s
fairly easy for millennials to digest — compiled a *greatest-hits list
of the coverage <http://bit.ly/293aM0N>* so we didn’t have to. Going
forward, people are still homeless and the solutions still range from
obvious (build homes!) to complicated (addiction treatment) to insane
(an algorithm for determining degrees of desperation).

One thing we didn’t see — admittedly, we did not look very hard — were
millennials and their feelings on the matter. No one asked millennials
what should be done, and that was really silly. Millennials are the now
and the future, and their opinions are super-important. After all, they
have college degrees.

Ads by ZINC
3

Lucky for us, the good folks over at the Yik Yak app — you know, that
gossip platform that was once big with college kids and is *less big now
<http://bit.ly/296iMzl>* — sent us some recent exchanges between Bay
Area millennials on the very topic of homelessness. And while we here at
Millennial Problems like to make jokes about young people, we are happy
to report that they displayed a lot of empathy for those among us who
struggle to survive. Sadly, their ideas feel very Gen X or baby boomer.

-A user named “imsoy” said companies should give homeless people jobs
that involve menial tasks such as sorting recyclables or washing windows
(the Hollywood version of being homeless) in exchange for lunch.

-An user in San Francisco suggested that the shower-bathroom trucks one
can find at festivals would be useful to someone living on the streets.
Not a bad idea, except not at all a new one. In fact, a little local
outfit called *Lava Mae <http://bit.ly/1SkJhRt>* has been doing that for
a couple years now — using refurbished Muni buses to boot.

-A user named “markohyeah” offered the idea of the “Leftover Walk.” This
would involve packing up the food you don’t want to eat, since you’re
just drowning in food as a non-homeless person, and pass it around for
whomever wants it. “Don’t like what I have? Maybe try what another
person brought.” Good idea, ohyeah. I think this kinda thing happens
already, and there are those soup kitchens and stuff.

-And another user, this one from Berkeley, pointed out that “the
homeless population in SF is more sick mentally than those elsewhere,”
and presumably something should be done about it. What exactly, this
millennial did not say.

Homelessness is the last thing to laugh at of make light of, and it’s
clear no one wants to do that. It’s just that no matter how clever or
creative an idea you might have, there’s really only one proven way to
get someone out of the homelessness experience: give them a home. The
government used to do it, *then it stopped <http://bit.ly/29380J9>*.
Maybe we should start by changing that.



  *

    <http://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfweekly.com%2Fnews%2Fmillennial-problems-solutions-to-homelessness%2F>
  *

    <http://twitter.com/home?status=Millennial+Problems%3A+Solutions+to+Homelessness+-+http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfweekly.com%2Fnews%2Fmillennial-problems-solutions-to-homelessness%2F>
  *

    <http://reddit.com/submit?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfweekly.com%2Fnews%2Fmillennial-problems-solutions-to-homelessness%2F&title=Millennial+Problems%3A+Solutions+to+Homelessness>
  *

    <mailto:?subject=Millennial%20Problems%3A%20Solutions%20to%20Homelessness&ampsubject=Millennial%20Problems%3A%20Solutions%20to%20Homelessness&body=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfweekly.com%2Fnews%2Fmillennial-problems-solutions-to-homelessness%2F>
  *

    <javascript:window.print();>
  *

    <http://www.sfweekly.com/news/millennial-problems-solutions-to-homelessness/comments/>

Our Content Recommended For You
<http://www.sfweekly.com/dining/five-must-eat-dishes-teleferic-barcelona/>
Five Must-Eat Dishes at Telefèric Barcelona
<http://www.sfweekly.com/dining/five-must-eat-dishes-teleferic-barcelona/>
Nov 30, 2016
<http://www.sfweekly.com/music/allshookdown/is-this-the-end-of-the-underground/>
“Is This the End of the Underground?”
<http://www.sfweekly.com/music/allshookdown/is-this-the-end-of-the-underground/>
Dec 7, 2016
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/son-cirque-du-soliel-co-founder-killed-accident-sf-show/>
Son of Cirque du Soleil co-founder killed in accident before SF show
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/son-cirque-du-soliel-co-founder-killed-accident-sf-show/>
Nov 30, 2016
<http://www.sfweekly.com/dining/feature-dining/animal-style-impossible-burger/>
Animal Style
<http://www.sfweekly.com/dining/feature-dining/animal-style-impossible-burger/>
Dec 7, 2016
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/five-arrested-allegedly-stealing-30k-cellphones-electronics/>
Five arrested for allegedly stealing $30K in cellphones, electronics
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/five-arrested-allegedly-stealing-30k-cellphones-electronics/>
Dec 2, 2016
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/xs-exene-cervenka-words-holidays/>
X’s Exene Cervenka has a few words about the holidays
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/xs-exene-cervenka-words-holidays/>
Dec 5, 2016
View Comments //

<http://www.sfweekly.com/news/millennial-problems-solutions-to-homelessness/comments/>



      Most Read

  *
    (SHN SF)
    <http://www.sfweekly.com/news/s-f-gets-see-hamilton-l-tickets-sale-soon/>



            S.F. Gets to See ‘Hamilton’ Before L.A. Does! (Tickets on
            Sale Soon)
            <http://www.sfweekly.com/news/s-f-gets-see-hamilton-l-tickets-sale-soon/>

    San Francisco’s wait for the revolutionary, Tony-winning musical
    Hamilton is finally over.…

        Thu Jun 30th, 2016 12:45pm By Max DeNike	
    homelessandcart
    <http://www.sfweekly.com/news/millennial-problems-solutions-to-homelessness/>

  *
    (Photo courtesy Hamilton)
    <http://www.sfweekly.com/culture/90000-queue-online-hamilton-tickets/>


            More than 90,000 queue up online for Hamilton tickets
            <http://www.sfweekly.com/culture/90000-queue-online-hamilton-tickets/>

    UPDATE, 2:30 p.m.: SHN reported at 1:45 p.m. Monday that presale
    tickets were sold…

        Thu Jun 30th, 2016 12:45pm By Max DeNike	
    homelessandcart
    <http://www.sfweekly.com/news/millennial-problems-solutions-to-homelessness/>

  *
    (Courtesy of Shutterstock)
    <http://www.sfweekly.com/news/snitch/mayor-butt-makes-ass-city-richmond/>



            Mayor Butt Makes an Ass of the City of Richmond
            <http://www.sfweekly.com/news/snitch/mayor-butt-makes-ass-city-richmond/>

    Richmond Mayor Tom Butt made a faux pas recently, after sending a…

        Thu Jun 30th, 2016 12:45pm By Max DeNike	
    homelessandcart
    <http://www.sfweekly.com/news/millennial-problems-solutions-to-homelessness/>

  *
    salesforce1
    <http://www.sfweekly.com/culture/awesome-alert-salesforce-tower-construction-aerial-images/>



            Awesome Alert: Salesforce Tower Construction in Aerial
            Images
            <http://www.sfweekly.com/culture/awesome-alert-salesforce-tower-construction-aerial-images/>

    (Photo: Salesforce Tower Facebook) The Salesforce Tower isn’t set to
    be completed…

        Thu Jun 30th, 2016 12:45pm By Max DeNike	
    homelessandcart
    <http://www.sfweekly.com/news/millennial-problems-solutions-to-homelessness/>

  *
    A ramaria in Mendocino. (Mycology Society of San Francisco)
    <http://www.sfweekly.com/dining/fungus-fair-sunday/>


            The Fungus Fair Is This Sunday
            <http://www.sfweekly.com/dining/fungus-fair-sunday/>

    Mycologists, fungi-philes, and asexually reproducing spore-people,
    take note! This Sunday, Dec. 4,…

        Thu Jun 30th, 2016 12:45pm By Max DeNike	
    homelessandcart
    <http://www.sfweekly.com/news/millennial-problems-solutions-to-homelessness/>


<http://www.sfweekly.com/>

  *

    <https://www.facebook.com/SFWeekly/>
  *

    <https://twitter.com/sfweekly/>
  *

    <https://www.instagram.com/sfweekly/>

© 2016, SF Weekly <http://www.sfweekly.com/> and SFMC
<http://sfmediaco.com/>

  * Subscribe to Our Email Newsletters
    <http://www.sfweekly.com/newsletters/>
  * SF Weekly Terms of Use <http://www.sfweekly.com/sf-weekly-terms-use/>
  * Privacy Policy <http://www.sfweekly.com/privacy-policy/>
  * Archives <http://archives.sfweekly.com/>

Post to Facebook
Post to Twitter
Post to Reddit
Email story
Print story
Jump to comments
Post to Facebook
Post to Twitter
Post to Reddit
Email story
Print story
Jump to comments
