  * English

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/>
  * Spanish

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/es/>

El Tecolote

<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/>
//

  * Home

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/>
  * News

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/>
      o Education

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/education/>
      o Immigration

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/immigration-news/>
      o Housing

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/housing-news/>
      o Health

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/health-news/>
  * Arts & Culture

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/>
      o Film and Literary Reviews

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/film-and-literary-reviews/>
      o People in the Arts

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/people-in-the-arts/>
      o Event Coverage

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/event-coverage/>
  * Features

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/features/>
  * Community

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/community-2/>
  * Latin America

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/latin_america/>
  * Commentary

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/>
      o Immigration 101

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/immigration-101/>
      o Veterans’ Voices

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/veterans-voices-commentary/>
      o Letters

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/letters/>
      o Opinion

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/opinion-en/>
  * About

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/about-2/>
      o Archive

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/print-issue-archive/>
      o Volunteer

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/about-2/volunteer/>
      o Acción Latina

        <http://accionlatina.org/>
  * Advertise

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/advertise-2/>
  * Contact

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/contact/>


  New app designed specifically to aid homeless people

// June 29, 2016 // Adrian Pintor
Share this: Facebook <#> Twitter <#> Google+ <#> Pinterest <#> Email to
a Friend <#>
Profile: homeless entrepreneur
Darcel Jackson poses next to a poster for his campaign as supervisor, at
the corner 24th and Lucky streets on June 26. Photo Adrian PintorDarcel
Jackson poses next to a poster for his campaign as supervisor, at the
corner 24th and Lucky streets on June 26. Photo Adrian Pintor

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Darcel-Profile_03web_box.jpg>
Darcel Jackson holds his mobile phone, which displays a photo of him on
the masthead of AskDarcel.org a resourceful website built to help
low-income, homeless and underserved people. Photo Adrian PintorDarcel
Jackson holds his mobile phone, which displays a photo of him on the
masthead of AskDarcel.org a resourceful website built to help
low-income, homeless and underserved people. Photo Adrian Pintor

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Darcel-Profile_02web.jpg>
Darcel Jackson poses next to a poster for his campaign as supervisor, at
the corner 24th and Lucky streets on June 26. Photo Adrian PintorDarcel
Jackson poses next to a poster for his campaign as supervisor, at the
corner 24th and Lucky streets on June 26. Photo Adrian Pintor

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Darcel-Profile_03web_box.jpg>
Darcel Jackson holds his mobile phone, which displays a photo of him on
the masthead of AskDarcel.org a resourceful website built to help
low-income, homeless and underserved people. Photo Adrian PintorDarcel
Jackson holds his mobile phone, which displays a photo of him on the
masthead of AskDarcel.org a resourceful website built to help
low-income, homeless and underserved people. Photo Adrian Pintor

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Darcel-Profile_02web.jpg>
Darcel Jackson, founder of "Shelter Tech" and "Ask Darcel," poses with
his mobile phone in front of a mural of the Golden Gate Bridge at 24th
and Folsom streets on June 26. Photo Adrian Pintor
<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Darcel-Profile_01web-2.jpg>

Darcel Jackson, founder of “Shelter Tech” and “Ask Darcel,” poses with
his mobile phone in front of a mural of the Golden Gate Bridge at 24th
and Folsom streets on June 26. Photo Adrian Pintor

It was 2014 and Darcel Jackson, who was homeless at the time, was laying
in one of the 334 beds at Next Door Shelter, when he thought of
something that shelters didn’t have: Wi-Fi.

Jackson, a Bay Area native, viewed a lack of internet access as a
barrier between homelessness and opportunities for employment. While
living at Next Door, a shelter at 1001 Polk St. that provides 24-hour
housing in San Francisco, he realized that Wi-Fi and computers were
non-existent.

“Having Wi-Fi is something that most people take for granted,” Jackson
said. “They turn on their phone, they have Wi-Fi. So I thought the other
half [homeless] could use Wi-Fi to better their situation, because most
housing opportunities have you apply online [as do most] employment
opportunities. And they need access to both those services to escape
homelessness.”

Installing Wi-Fi in shelters was just the platform Jackson needed to
come up with the idea of an app that could revolutionize how homeless
people access housing and employment opportunities.

“Ask Darcel” is a mobile resource app designed to better inform the
homeless community about housing, job listings and also serves as a
contact for medical and dental centers. The app is still in its
development stages, but it’s set to launch in August 2016.

One of its features is a global positioning system that will provide the
user with alternative options on how to reach the service and the
expected arrival time.

“Basically what it does, it keeps you from running around depending on
people that live on the street to tell you where the resources are,”
Jackson said.

Ask Darcel will also feature “Darcel’s List,” intended to be very
similar to Craigslist. Jackson says it will enhance the way homeless
individuals seek employment. The objective is to post day labor jobs,
Jackson explained, where workers will earn minimum wage and move toward
a more stable lifestyle.

Jackson said the app would allow the user to build a profile that will
allow employers to view a headshot, full biography and a list of skills
that could be applicable to specific jobs.

The app will use a 0-5 star rating system where the employer could rate
the employee based on previously done work, and vice-versa. If the user
reaches five stars, bigger job opportunities would be available, such as
working at a restaurant, for example.

“The key is to create a motivational tool,” Jackson said.

Ask Darcel will also feature motivational games, and an avatar named
“Casey,” who Jackson hopes will teach the user about case-management.
The more achievements the user obtains, the more wardrobe options you
get to dress your avatar. Each piece of wardrobe will be a reward, such
as obtaining identification at the DMV or getting access to counseling.

*Becoming, and overcoming homelessness*

Jackson worked in construction as a welder almost all of his life, but
eventually work became scarce and work-related injuries convinced him
that his welding days were over.

“I got old,” Jackson chuckled. “I couldn’t hang off a 30-story building
and weld. Also my vision was failing.”

After the 2008 recession, it was difficult for Jackson to find work.
Then Jackson lost his housing, and eventually wound up at Next Door.

Jackson spent 10 months at Next Door and several other shelters, such as
The Sanctuary, until an opportunity arose to enroll in the Conquering
Homelessness through Employment in Food Services (CHEFS) training
program, which is offered for homeless adults by the Episcopal Community
Services.

Jackson completed a six-month non-paid culinary program, and now works
as a caterer and cooks every Wednesday. But during the program—one that
started off with 19 students but finished with only three
graduates—Jackson witnessed the difficulty many homeless people face
when striving for stability. Many of his peers dropped the program due
to not having housing, drug addiction or a lack of commitment.

“It was very challenging because I was 55-years-old,” Jackson said.
“When I first started I already knew a little about cooking, but when I
entered the program I told myself ‘You are here to learn everything,’ so
that’s what I did.”

Soon after moving to the Mission District, Jackson decided to attend a
town hall meeting about whether tech companies could alleviate, or
better, find a solution to homelessness.

The town hall was held by tech entrepreneur Greg Gopman, founder of
AngelHack who made headlines in 2013 for an infamous Facebook rant about
San Francisco’s homeless, in which he referred to them as “degenerates”
and “trash” among other insults. Gopman apologized almost immediately
for his comments, and has since decided that solving San Francisco’s
homelessness problem is a worthy endeavor.

At that town hall, Jackson realized the meeting wasn’t an open forum. A
guest had to text their question into a pool of questions, and if it got
enough “likes,” the panel would answer.

“It was all high tech,” Jackson said. “So I thought to myself: ‘Homeless
people don’t have access to this type of stuff [internet], so they can’t
even participate in a discussion that is designed to help them.’”

It was at that moment Jackson realized that not having access to the
internet in this era can impair an individual’s ability to improve their
living status or even have their voice be heard at hall meetings.

This motivated Jackson to approach Gopman about the idea of installing
Wi-Fi in homeless shelters. Jackson said they talked and Gopman brought
MonkeyBrains—an internet service provider—to the table.

According to Jackson, Next Door Shelter wasn’t interested in computers,
but liked the idea of installing Wi-Fi. Wi-Fi has since been installed
at Next Door and both Jackson and Gopman have created Shelter Tech, a
nonprofit. Since then, they have been working to bring Wi-Fi to two
low-income housing projects in the Tenderloin by August 2016.

Jackson also announced his candidacy for District 9 Supervisor, but had
to drop out due to financial reasons. He has since decided to work with
candidate Josh Arce on how to approach homelessness.

“It’s a social hazard,” Jackson said. “It’s pretty much everywhere, but
the way you deal with social hazards, just like we do with earthquakes,
first we need to alleviate the problem and then put safeguards out
there, so people attack homelessness before people become homeless.”

/For more information, visit askdarcel.org <http://askdarcel.org/>/

 

 

AngelHack <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/angelhack/> Ask Darcel
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/ask-darcel/> Darcel Jackson
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/darcel-jackson/> Greg Gopman
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/greg-gopman/> Homeless
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/homeless-en/> homeless app
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/homeless-app/> Josh Arce
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/josh-arce/> mission district
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/mission-district-en/> Next Door
Shelter <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/next-door-shelter/> SF
Homeless Project
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/sf-homeless-project/> Shelter Tech
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/shelter-tech/>

Previous Post


      El Tecolote joins SF Homeless Project
      <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/features/el-tecolote-joins-sf-homeless-project/>

Next Post


      Once homeless youth talks life on the street
      <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/features/once-homeless-youth-talks-life-on-the-street/>

Latest Print Issue
Powered by <https://issuu.com/explore>
Publish for Free <https://issuu.com/publishers?entryPoint=embed>
El Tecolote on Youtube
Recent Posts
cf6_kkk-bold-eagle_01_web
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/election-cartoons/>	


    Election Cartoons
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/election-cartoons/>

// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/election-cartoons/#respond>
A detention center in Arizona. Photo: Steve Pavey
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/opinion-en/there-are-no-borders-that-can-contain-the-cry-of-justice/>



    There are no borders that can contain the cry of...
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/opinion-en/there-are-no-borders-that-can-contain-the-cry-of-justice/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/opinion-en/there-are-no-borders-that-can-contain-the-cry-of-justice/#respond>

A stencil disparaging tech workers on a 24th Street sidewalk. Photo:
Mabel Jiménez
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/letters/letter-to-the-editor-techie-hate/>



    Letter to the editor: Techie hate
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/letters/letter-to-the-editor-techie-hate/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/letters/letter-to-the-editor-techie-hate/#respond>

Photo: Ekevara Kitpowsong
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/arts_culture/my-people-love-is-stronger-than-hate/>



    My people: Love is stronger than hate
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/arts_culture/my-people-love-is-stronger-than-hate/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/arts_culture/my-people-love-is-stronger-than-hate/#respond>

Prop 58 passed, allowing bilingual education in California schools. El
Tecolote Archives/Photo: Marina Forte
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/news/ballot-measure-results-show-ca-is-well-left-of-nation/>



    Ballot measure results show CA is well left of...
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/news/ballot-measure-results-show-ca-is-well-left-of-nation/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/news/ballot-measure-results-show-ca-is-well-left-of-nation/#respond>

Voter Guide


      About

El Tecolote newspaper began as a project in a La Raza Studies class at
San Francisco State University. Prof. Juan Gonzales created the class as
a way to channel more Latinos into journalism. In the 1970s, Latinos and
other people of color were virtually invisible in the major newsrooms.

Today El Tecolote continues to provide original local news, portraying
the diverse spectrum of Latino life.


      //Twitter

  * //RT @AccionLatinaSF <http://twitter.com/AccionLatinaSF>: Our Juan
    R. Fuentes Gallery turns 1 next month and to celebrate/fundraise we
    are hosting a special art auction with som…
    November 29th, 2016
  * //Encuentro del Canto Popular 30th Anniversary! • Dec. 11 • 7pm
    #encuentro <http://twitter.com/search?q=encuentro> @AccionLatinaSF
    <http://twitter.com/AccionLatinaSF> https://t.co/QWugKbgTKM	
    November 23rd, 2016

Copyright (c) 2016. All rights reserved.
Published by Acción Latina <http://www.accionlatina.org/>	
<#>
