SF Homeless Project
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=logo-lo_c9c5f5ebb63f---6286c006a24b>
Follow
<https://twitter.com/bayareahomeless><https://facebook.com/sfhomelessproject>
Sign in / Sign up
<https://medium.com/m/signin?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fsfhomelessproject.com%2Fon-the-streets-of-the-tenderloin-a-light-in-an-unlit-world-223b1cdbb26b%3Fsource%3D---------13--------->
Home <https://sfhomelessproject.com/>About
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/to-the-city-and-people-of-san-francisco-484764406408>How
you can help
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/help-guide/widget/index.html><https://sfhomelessproject.com/search>
Next story


        These Are the Faces of San Francisco’s Homelessness Crisis

<https://thebolditalic.com/these-are-the-faces-of-san-franciscos-homelessness-crisis-8fd3750edacc?source=read_next_metabar----------43>
2

  * Share
  *
    2

  *
*

Go to the profile of KQED

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@kqed?source=post_header_lockup>
KQED
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@kqed?source=post_header_lockup>BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Your Northern California PBS and NPR Stations
Jun 28

------------------------------------------------------------------------


  On the Streets of the Tenderloin, ‘a Light in an Unlit World’

Two drawings hang at the SF Night Ministry’s headquarters where head
Minister Lyle Beckman led volunteers in prayer before the night’s crisis
line opened and before he hit the streets. (/Natalie Yemenidjian/KQED/)

*By Natalie Yemenidjian*

San Francisco Night Minister Lyle Beckman is sitting across from me at a
saloon on Mission Street in San Francisco’s Bernal Heights. He sips on a
club soda while we wait for drag king Kit Tapata to finish hosting the
bar’s trivia night.

Tapata, who’s dressed like Westley from “The Princess Bride
<http://princessbrideforever.com/>,” points out Beckman to the crowd.

“Behave,” Tapata orders. “There’s a father in the house.”

As the bar’s attention turns his way, a woman sitting nearby draws
closer to Beckman and he leans in. They talk about her late husband, a
topic that punctuates their conversation about baseball, the differences
between West Coast and East Coast and her past as a devout Catholic.

10:30 p.m.: Pastor Lyle Beckman, the SF Night Minister waits for drag
king, Kit Tapata, to finish her trivia hosting duties to talk about
flyers for an upcoming fundraising. Helping others costs money and the
Night Ministry relies on folks like Tapata. Beckman orders club sodas,
but enjoys the community in local bars. As more neighborhood bars are
priced out, he says the only people who talk to him at the new “sterile”
spots are the bartenders. (Natalie Yemenidjian/KQED)

“Oftentimes it’s under the influence of alcohol that I hear the stories
of people that really want to share,” Beckman says.

The Bay Area is one of the least churchgoing metro regions in the United
States, according to a survey by the Barna Group
<http://cities.barna.org/barna-cities-the-top-churchless-metro-areas/>,
with 48 percent reporting they don’t attend church any more and 14
percent saying they’ve never gone to church at all.

But Beckman, an ordained Lutheran minister, says church and religion
aren’t about regular attendance at service.

    ‘We could change this. But everybody waits for the city to do
    something. If we put our heads and hearts together, we can do
    something for these people sleeping on the streets.’ The Rev. Lyle
    Beckman,
     San Francisco Night Ministry

The S.F. Night Ministry holds what it calls open cathedrals
<http://www.sfnightministry.org/joomla30/index.php/programs/open-cathedral>
 — outdoor services. Beckman says some of the people most in need of
comfort are those who cannot stand in a room or be silent for an hour.

“The real work of the church isn’t about what comes out of the
archbishop’s office,” Beckman says. “It’s about what the church does
feeding the hungry, sheltering the homeless, giving access to social
services.”

Minister Lyle Beckman points out where we are on an intricate mural
depicting the ghosts of churches leaving the Tenderloin. With them often
go services rendered to the poor and homeless in the area. (Natalie
Yemenidjian/KQED)

In the Tenderloin, Beckman has noticed that at the beginning of each
month, when folks get their Social Security or other assistance
payments, there are fewer people on the streets than usual. But he is
sure that he’s needed anyway. While other institutions may provide
shelter, food and services, Beckman and the other night ministers may be
out in the neighborhood all night, listening to, hugging and praying
with the homeless and most vulnerable residents.

“We could change this,” Beckman says while pointing down Turk Street.
“But everybody waits for the city to do something. If we put our heads
and hearts together, we can do something for these people sleeping on
the streets.”

Homelessness is part of the landscape, with a 2015 city count showing
that 60 percent of those living without shelter in the city were found
in the Tenderloin and South of Market.

Beckman ponders what change will bring to the neighborhood.

“I wonder often, what’s the future of the Tenderloin? Will it lose its
character?” said Beckman.

There is no shortage of character in front of Aunt Charlie’s Lounge, a
gay bar on Turk. Outside on the sidewalk, a local named Tim Haley has
set up a grill and the aroma of barbecue permeates the air. He sells
sausage links, ribs, chicken and other favorites for bar patrons and his
Tenderloin regulars.

After popping in to the Tenderloin’s legendary Aunt Charlie’s on the
corner of Turk Street and Taylor Street, a woman asks the pastor: “He
has a purple aura, doesn’t he?” referring to Tim Haley (right) who
barbecues and sells sausage links, ribs, chicken and other meats for bar
patrons and Tenderloin regulars. For $6, Haley gave her enough meat for
her and her friends to have a good dinner. (Natalie Yemenidjian/KQED)

‘He has a purple aura, doesn’t he?” a woman asks, referring to Haley.

Beckman stops to check out the aura and waves his hands in the air as if
to outline the purple glow.

The woman looks at Beckman for a moment, realizing he’s a man of the
cloth. She asks him if people who kill themselves go to hell. She
explains her brother had taken his own life. Beckman softly explains
that his God is one of forgiveness and compassion.

A homeless woman asks the pastor to pray for her husband and dog who she
says had both been stabbed a few days earlier. He comforts her and says
he’ll pray for all of them. For Pastor Beckman, this corner is ground
zero. (Natalie Yemenidjian/KQED)

“No one is going to hell tonight,” he says.

Tim Haley says he’s a recovering addict who used to be homeless.

“I fell a long way back,” Haley says. He used to work at an apartment
building around the corner. When they fired everyone he went on a
downward spiral, but found his way back.

“I thought I never would get out of that stuff,” he says.

Tim Haley who used to be homeless and addicted to drugs, but turned his
life around and now hands out food to folks who needs it and takes
donations to pay for more meat. (Natalie Yemenidjian/KQED)

Beckman has a striking presence as he walks through the Tenderloin.
While most of us, conditioned by “mean world syndrome” and a thousand
other anxieties, might put on some kind of psychic armor, Beckman seems
unguarded in his exchanges with people on the street. He’s affectionate,
but not overbearing. His 6-foot-4-inch frame, draped in black, is
somehow more comforting than intimidating.

As we walk down Turk Street, there is no one Beckman will not stop for.

A man calls out to him from his seat on the pavement: “You’re the light
in this unlit world. Thanks for being out here.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

/Originally published at //ww2.kqed.org/
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/on-the-streets-of-the-tenderloin-a-light-in-an-unlit-world>/on
June 29, 2016./

Homeless
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/homeless?source=post>Night
Ministry
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/night-ministry?source=post>Instagram
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/instagram?source=post>Tenderloin
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/tenderloin?source=post>SFHomelessProject
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/sfhomelessproject?source=post>
2
#
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Go to the profile of KQED

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@kqed?source=footer_card>


      KQED <https://sfhomelessproject.com/@kqed>

Your Northern California PBS and NPR Stations

#
Follow
SF Homeless Project

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=footer_card>


      SF Homeless Project
      <https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=footer_card>

80 publishers, one focus.

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/san-francisco-needs-to-wake-up-and-help-the-kids-that-people-dont-even-know-exist-teri-594abcd4cea8?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
More on SFHomelessProject from SF Homeless Project
“San Francisco needs to wake up and help the kids that people don’t even
know exist.” Teri

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/san-francisco-needs-to-wake-up-and-help-the-kids-that-people-dont-even-know-exist-teri-594abcd4cea8?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
Go to the profile of stories behind the fog

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@storiesbehindthefog>
stories behind the fog
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@storiesbehindthefog?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
19
<https://thebolditalic.com/i-guess-we-have-to-gentrify-the-tenderloin-now-2a11ec64e50b?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Also tagged Tenderloin
I Guess We Have to Gentrify the Tenderloin Now

<https://thebolditalic.com/i-guess-we-have-to-gentrify-the-tenderloin-now-2a11ec64e50b?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Go to the profile of The Bold Italic Editors

<https://thebolditalic.com/@thebolditalic>
The Bold Italic Editors
<https://thebolditalic.com/@thebolditalic?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
16
<https://medium.com/cin%C3%A9math%C3%A8que-films/u-always-fell-asleep-before-we-went-to-bed-27ccd687ba18?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Also tagged Tenderloin
u always fell asleep before we went to bed/

<https://medium.com/cin%C3%A9math%C3%A8que-films/u-always-fell-asleep-before-we-went-to-bed-27ccd687ba18?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Go to the profile of Tim Barrus

<https://medium.com/@timbarrus>
Tim Barrus
<https://medium.com/@timbarrus?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
1
Responses
Write a response…
Unknown user
No responses yet
Show all responses

×

Don’t miss KQED’s next story
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
KQEDKQED
