KQED Menu

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Menu

    <#>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs & Blogs

        <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Special Coverage

        <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs <#> Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California


  KQED News <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

Search

<#search-container>


  KQED News Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Search for:

Two drawings hang at the San Francisco Night Ministry's headquarters,
where head minister Lyle Beckman led volunteers in prayer before the
night's crisis line opened and before he hit the streets.

Two drawings hang at the San Francisco Night Ministry's headquarters,
where head minister Lyle Beckman led volunteers in prayer before the
night's crisis line opened and before he hit the streets. (/Natalie
Yemenidjian/KQED/)

News Fix <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>


  On the Streets of the Tenderloin, ‘a Light in an Unlit World’

By Natalie Yemenidjian <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/nyemenidjian/>
June 29, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/on-the-streets-of-the-tenderloin-a-light-in-an-unlit-world/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/on-the-streets-of-the-tenderloin-a-light-in-an-unlit-world/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/on-the-streets-of-the-tenderloin-a-light-in-an-unlit-world/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/on-the-streets-of-the-tenderloin-a-light-in-an-unlit-world/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/on-the-streets-of-the-tenderloin-a-light-in-an-unlit-world/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/on-the-streets-of-the-tenderloin-a-light-in-an-unlit-world/?share=email&nb=1>
*


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>

/Follow a night in the life <https://www.instagram.com/p/BHP180pDRFn/>of
S.F. Night Minister Lyle Beckman on KQED News’s Instagram. /

San Francisco Night Minister Lyle Beckman is sitting across from me at a
saloon on Mission Street in San Francisco’s Bernal Heights. He sips on a
club soda while we wait for drag king Kit Tapata to finish hosting the
bar’s trivia night.

Tapata, who’s dressed like Westley from “The Princess Bride
<http://princessbrideforever.com/>,” points out Beckman to the crowd.

“Behave,” Tapata orders. “There’s a father in the house.”

As the bar’s attention turns his way, a woman sitting nearby draws
closer to Beckman and he leans in. They talk about her late husband, a
topic that punctuates their conversation about baseball, the differences
between the West Coast and East Coast, and her past as a devout Catholic.

“Oftentimes it’s under the influence of alcohol that I hear the stories
of people that really want to share,” Beckman says.

10:30 p.m.: Pastor Lyle Beckman, the SF Night Minister waits for drag
king, Kit Tapata, to finish her trivia hosting duties at the 3300 Club
to talk about flyers for an upcoming fundraising. Helping others costs
money and the Night Ministry relies on folks like Tapata. As Pastor Lyle
Beckman waits, bar goers approach him with stories of their childhood
trauma, grief and faith. "Some people are so lonely and isolated that
it's usually under the influence that I hear the stories that people
really want to share," Beckman said. Beckman orders club sodas, but
enjoys the community in local bars. As more neighborhood bars are priced
out, he says the only people who talk to him at the new "sterile" spots
are the bartenders. More than 70 percent of San Francisco's homeless
lived in the city before they were homeless, according to the 2015
Homeless Count.
10:30 p.m.: Pastor Lyle Beckman, the S.F. Night Minister, waits for drag
king Kit Tapata to finish her trivia hosting duties to talk about fliers
for an upcoming fundraising. Helping others costs money and the Night
Ministry relies on folks like Tapata. Beckman orders club sodas, but
enjoys the community in local bars. As more neighborhood bars are priced
out, he says the only people who talk to him at the new ‘sterile’ spots
are the bartenders. (Natalie Yemenidjian/KQED)

The Bay Area is one of the least churchgoing metro regions in the United
States, according to a survey by the Barna Group
<http://cities.barna.org/barna-cities-the-top-churchless-metro-areas/>,
with 48 percent reporting they don’t attend church anymore and 14
percent saying they’ve never gone to church at all.

But Beckman, an ordained Lutheran minister, says church and religion
aren’t about regular attendance at service.

‘We could change this. But everybody waits for the city to do something.
If we put our heads and hearts together, we can do something for these
people sleeping on the streets.’ 
The Rev. Lyle Beckman,
San Francisco Night Ministry

The S.F. Night Ministry holds what it calls open cathedrals
<http://www.sfnightministry.org/joomla30/index.php/programs/open-cathedral>
— outdoor services. Beckman says some of the people most in need of
comfort are those who cannot stand in a room or be silent for an hour.

“The real work of the church isn’t about what comes out of the
archbishop’s office,” Beckman says. “It’s about what the church does
feeding the hungry, sheltering the homeless, giving access to social
services.”

Minister Lyle Beckman points out where we are on an intricate mural
depicting the ghosts of churches leaving the Tenderloin. With them often
go services rendered to the poor and homeless in the area.
Minister Lyle Beckman points out where we are on an intricate mural
depicting the ghosts of churches leaving the Tenderloin. With them often
go services rendered to the poor and homeless in the area. (Natalie
Yemenidjian/KQED)

In the Tenderloin, Beckman has noticed that at the beginning of each
month, when folks get their Social Security or other assistance
payments, there are fewer people on the streets than usual. But he is
sure that he’s needed anyway. While other institutions may provide
shelter, food and services, Beckman and the other night ministers may be
out in the neighborhood all night, listening to, hugging and praying
with the homeless and most vulnerable residents.

“We could change this,” Beckman says, pointing down Turk Street. “But
everybody waits for the city to do something. If we put our heads and
hearts together, we can do something for these people sleeping on the
streets.”

Homelessness is part of the landscape, with a 2015 city count showing
that 60 percent of those living without shelter in the city were found
in the Tenderloin and South of Market.

*Homelessness is a complex issue. Learn more >>
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>*sfproject3
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>

Beckman ponders what change will bring to the neighborhood.

“I wonder often, what’s the future of the Tenderloin? Will it lose its
character?” said Beckman.

There is no shortage of character in front of Aunt Charlie’s Lounge, a
gay bar on Turk. Outside on the sidewalk, a local named Tim Haley has
set up a grill and the aroma of barbecue permeates the air. He sells
sausage links, ribs, chicken and other favorites to bar patrons and his
Tenderloin regulars.


After popping in to the Tenderloin’s legendary Aunt Charlie’s on the
corner of Turk Street and Taylor Street, a woman asks the pastor: “He
has a purple aura, doesn’t he?” referring to Tim Haley (right) who
barbecues and sells sausage links, ribs, chicken and other meats for bar
patrons and Tenderloin regulars. For $6, Haley gave her enough meat for
her and her friends to have a good dinner. (Natalie Yemenidjian/KQED)

‘He has a purple aura, doesn’t he?” a woman asks, referring to Haley.

Beckman stops to check out the aura and waves his hands in the air as if
to outline the purple glow.

The woman looks at Beckman for a moment, realizing he’s a man of the
cloth. She asks him if people who kill themselves go to hell. She
explains her brother had taken his own life. Beckman softly explains
that his God is one of forgiveness and compassion.

“No one is going to hell tonight,” he says.


A homeless woman asks the pastor to pray for her husband and dog, who
she says had both been stabbed a few days earlier. He comforts her and
says he’ll pray for all of them. For Pastor Beckman, this corner is
ground zero.

 

Tim Haley says he’s a recovering addict who used to be homeless.

“I fell a long way back,” Haley says. He used to work at an apartment
building around the corner. When they fired everyone, he went on a
downward spiral, but found his way back.

“I thought I never would get out of that stuff,” he says.

Tim Haley who used to be homeless and addicted to drugs, but turned his
life around and now hands out food to folks who needs it and takes
donations to pay for more meat.
Tim Haley, who used to be homeless and addicted to drugs, turned his
life around and now hands out food to folks who needs it and takes
donations to pay for more meat. (Natalie Yemenidjian/KQED)

Beckman has a striking presence as he walks through the Tenderloin.
While most of us, conditioned by “mean world syndrome” and a thousand
other anxieties, might put on some kind of psychic armor, Beckman seems
unguarded in his exchanges with people on the street. He’s affectionate,
but not overbearing. His 6-foot-4-inch frame, draped in black, is
somehow more comforting than intimidating.

As we walk down Turk Street, there is no one that Beckman will not stop for.

A man calls out to him from his seat on the pavement: “You’re the light
in this unlit world. Thanks for being out here.”

Explore: News <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/news/>, homelessness
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/homelessness/>, Instagram
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/instagram/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/on-the-streets-of-the-tenderloin-a-light-in-an-unlit-world/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/on-the-streets-of-the-tenderloin-a-light-in-an-unlit-world/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/on-the-streets-of-the-tenderloin-a-light-in-an-unlit-world/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/on-the-streets-of-the-tenderloin-a-light-in-an-unlit-world/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/on-the-streets-of-the-tenderloin-a-light-in-an-unlit-world/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/on-the-streets-of-the-tenderloin-a-light-in-an-unlit-world/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

1 Comment
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/on-the-streets-of-the-tenderloin-a-light-in-an-unlit-world/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related

An Oakland 9-Year-Old, Shot and Paralyzed, Struggles to Return to School

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2015/04/28/an-oakland-9-year-old-shot-and-paralyzed-struggles-to-return-to-school>

Mean Street in S.F.'s Tenderloin Will Get a Bicycle-Friendly 'Road Diet'

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/05/20/mean-street-in-s-f-s-tenderloin-will-get-a-bicycle-friendly-road-diet/>

Forgotten Names: Annual San Francisco Gathering Honors Homeless Dead

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/dozens_gather_for_deceased_homeless>

Nation's First Library Social Worker Helps Give Hope to the Homeless

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2014/04/11/nations-first-library-social-worker-helps-give-hope-to-the-homeless>

The Rev. Otis Charles Remembered as Gay Rights Advocate

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2014/01/02/bishop-otis-charles-gay-rights-advocate>

At the Corner of Power and Poverty

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/at-the-corner-of-power-and-poverty/>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


    Author


      Natalie Yemenidjian

Natalie Yemenidjian is an on-call producer for KQED and multimedia
reporter.  She studied journalism and urban planning and studies at San
Francisco State University.

View all posts by this author
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/nyemenidjian/>


  Post navigation

Prev A White Ally Finds Her Voice

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/standing-up-for-racial-equality-literally-a-white-ally-finds-her-voice/>
Next New Music From DJ Shadow and the Dead Ships

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/new-music-from-dj-shadow-and-the-dead-ships/>



  About KQED

  * About <http://www.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://www.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://www.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://www.kqed.org/about/help/index.jsp>


  Follow KQED News

  * Follow Us on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KQEDnews>
  * Follow Us on Twitter <https://twitter.com/kqednews>
  * Connect on Instagram <http://instagram.com/kqednews>
  * Connect on Google+ <https://plus.google.com/117185877001714843452/posts>
  * Connect on YouTube <https://www.youtube.com/user/KQEDnews>

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

[blank image]
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil


  Get the facts!

Close

:)
