  * English

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/>
  * Spanish

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/es/>

El Tecolote

<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/>
//

  * Home

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/>
  * News

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/>
      o Education

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/education/>
      o Immigration

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/immigration-news/>
      o Housing

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/housing-news/>
      o Health

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/health-news/>
  * Arts & Culture

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/>
      o Film and Literary Reviews

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/film-and-literary-reviews/>
      o People in the Arts

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/people-in-the-arts/>
      o Event Coverage

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/event-coverage/>
  * Features

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/features/>
  * Community

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/community-2/>
  * Latin America

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/latin_america/>
  * Commentary

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/>
      o Immigration 101

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/immigration-101/>
      o Veterans’ Voices

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/veterans-voices-commentary/>
      o Letters

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/letters/>
      o Opinion

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/opinion-en/>
  * About

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/about-2/>
      o Archive

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/print-issue-archive/>
      o Volunteer

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/about-2/volunteer/>
      o Acción Latina

        <http://accionlatina.org/>
  * Advertise

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/advertise-2/>
  * Contact

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/contact/>


  Once homeless youth talks life on the street

// June 29, 2016 // Alexis Terrazas
Share this: Facebook <#> Twitter <#> Google+ <#> Pinterest <#> Email to
a Friend <#>
Andreas, who was formerly homeless and living out of youth shelters and
group homes in San Francisco, poses for a portrait in North Beach. Photo
Alexis Terrazas
<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Andreas_01web.jpg>

Andreas, who was formerly homeless and living out of youth shelters and
group homes in San Francisco, poses for a portrait in North Beach. Photo
Alexis Terrazas

At 16 years old, Andreas traveled 7,000 miles—alone—from the Philippines
back to the United States, searching for something he had long since
lost: happiness.

“I wasn’t getting what I needed from home,” Andreas, now 25, said. His
mother died when he was 8 years old, leaving him angry and in the care
of his “oppressive” and controlling father. “At one point, I thought I
was the happiest in my life, when I was living on the street.”

Andreas, who declined to state his last name for this report, was born
and raised in Traverse City, Michigan, and after a two-year stint in the
Philippines, he spent his adolescent years in and out of San Francisco
youth homeless shelters and group homes.

Andreas fled his biological family and joined a clan of fellow homeless
youth, some who came from as far off as Stockton and Las Vegas, who
would become his “street family.”

“We’re spit out into a world that already has its ways, and we’re
supposed to work with it. I don’t necessarily agree with the way that
things are,” Andreas said. “I don’t think that this is the best way to
live. To work all of your life, buy a car, pay rent, that just doesn’t
seem really natural to me.”

“There is a percentage of people that are a product of the system that
has failed them,” Andreas continued.

Andreas was a self-described teenage “punk” living in the Philippines,
where his father had sent him two years earlier after he stole a car and
led police on a high-speed chase. A high school dropout contemplating
what he should do with his life, Andreas phoned the U.S. Embassy and
informed them that he was stranded (his father was at the time away on
business in China). After meeting with two social workers, he was given
a one-way plane ticket to be closer to his sister in Redwood City.

“My dad was kind of pissed at me,” Andreas said.

Unable to stay with his sister, however, Andreas spent his first night
in San Francisco at the Diamond Youth Center, an emergency homeless
shelter, part of Larkin Street Youth Services.

“That was the first place I went,” Andreas recalled. “I met some friends
and started seeing what this City was about.”

It wasn’t long before he was robbed. But the quiet Andreas found a
family in his fellow homeless teens, many times spending nights huddled
together, sharing food they had stolen from corporate supermarkets.

“Those were the only people I had,” Andreas said of his street family.
“I have this moral: I have never stolen from another human being,
another person…with the bad intention of like, ‘F— this person, I’m
going to get mine and I don’t care what happens to them or what they
feel.’ But I don’t feel that way about corporations.”

Andreas was seemingly finding some stability at Larkin Street, being
moved from the Diamond Shelter to The Loft, a transitional housing and
support program for underage youth, where he stayed there for more than
a year.

“The Loft was a pretty cool group home, actually,” Andreas said. “There
was really cool staff there. And that was one of the things that was so
dope about Larkin Street; 90 percent of the people that worked there
were amazing. They had a lot of heart. I’m blessed to have been in there
presence for that time.”

While there, 17-year-old Andreas landed an internship with the Community
Arts Program at Hospitality House, teaching silk-screening and art at
Turk and Leavenworth streets.

“I was just trying to get people to do art in a safe space that was very
not safe,” Andreas said. “It was cool.”

But when Andreas was transitioned from The Loft to a program where he
had his own apartment with roommates from other group homes, he was
tested. Unable to adhere to curfew and his newfound freedom, Andreas was
sent back to a group home. He then went back to the Diamond Shelter, and
it wasn’t long before he was living on the streets again.

“I thought I was ready,” said Andreas, who had begun breaking into
abandoned buildings, looking for areas to sleep. “It definitely
accelerated my people skills. When you’re dealing with a bunch of upset
teenagers, who all have problems, nothing goes smoothly. You definitely
have to work on your problem solving skills.”

He would also occasionally stay with friends, but right before turning
18, he met his girlfriend.

“That’s when everything changed,” he said. Shortly after, he lived with
his girlfriend and her family for nearly two years. He later would be
accepted into the lease program, and lived at a house on Goettingen
Street in San Francisco for two years.

“That was a beautiful experience too,” Andreas said. “It was like my
last run with Larkin Street.”

He now lives back with his girlfriend, but he doesn’t regret his past,
nor the street family he would call the “richest bums,” or “poorest kings.”

“No matter where I go, I’ll always sort of feel homeless in my heart.
Because you can’t just be so immersed in it, and just completely forget
about it and feel normal,” Andreas said. “I don’t need too much to be
happy.”

homeless youth <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/homeless-youth/>
Hospitality House
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/hospitality-house/> Larkin Street
Youth Services
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/larkin-street-youth-services/> san
francisco <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/san-francisco-en/> SF
Homeless Project <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/sf-homeless-project/>

Previous Post


      New app designed specifically to aid homeless people
      <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/features/new-app-designed-specifically-to-aid-homeless-people/>

Next Post


      Homeless street artist brushes pain away one stroke at a time
      <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/features/homeless-street-artist-brushes-away-his-pain-one-stroke-at-a-time/>

Latest Print Issue
Powered by <https://issuu.com/explore>
Publish for Free <https://issuu.com/publishers?entryPoint=embed>
El Tecolote on Youtube
Recent Posts
cf6_kkk-bold-eagle_01_web
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/election-cartoons/>	


    Election Cartoons
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/election-cartoons/>

// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/election-cartoons/#respond>
A detention center in Arizona. Photo: Steve Pavey
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/opinion-en/there-are-no-borders-that-can-contain-the-cry-of-justice/>



    There are no borders that can contain the cry of...
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/opinion-en/there-are-no-borders-that-can-contain-the-cry-of-justice/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/opinion-en/there-are-no-borders-that-can-contain-the-cry-of-justice/#respond>

A stencil disparaging tech workers on a 24th Street sidewalk. Photo:
Mabel Jiménez
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/letters/letter-to-the-editor-techie-hate/>



    Letter to the editor: Techie hate
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/letters/letter-to-the-editor-techie-hate/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/letters/letter-to-the-editor-techie-hate/#respond>

Photo: Ekevara Kitpowsong
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/arts_culture/my-people-love-is-stronger-than-hate/>



    My people: Love is stronger than hate
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/arts_culture/my-people-love-is-stronger-than-hate/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/arts_culture/my-people-love-is-stronger-than-hate/#respond>

Prop 58 passed, allowing bilingual education in California schools. El
Tecolote Archives/Photo: Marina Forte
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/news/ballot-measure-results-show-ca-is-well-left-of-nation/>



    Ballot measure results show CA is well left of...
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/news/ballot-measure-results-show-ca-is-well-left-of-nation/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/news/ballot-measure-results-show-ca-is-well-left-of-nation/#respond>

Voter Guide


      About

El Tecolote newspaper began as a project in a La Raza Studies class at
San Francisco State University. Prof. Juan Gonzales created the class as
a way to channel more Latinos into journalism. In the 1970s, Latinos and
other people of color were virtually invisible in the major newsrooms.

Today El Tecolote continues to provide original local news, portraying
the diverse spectrum of Latino life.


      //Twitter

  * //RT @AccionLatinaSF <http://twitter.com/AccionLatinaSF>: Our Juan
    R. Fuentes Gallery turns 1 next month and to celebrate/fundraise we
    are hosting a special art auction with som…
    November 29th, 2016
  * //Encuentro del Canto Popular 30th Anniversary! • Dec. 11 • 7pm
    #encuentro <http://twitter.com/search?q=encuentro> @AccionLatinaSF
    <http://twitter.com/AccionLatinaSF> https://t.co/QWugKbgTKM	
    November 23rd, 2016

Copyright (c) 2016. All rights reserved.
Published by Acción Latina <http://www.accionlatina.org/>	

<#>
