From /The Atlantic/


  CityLab

<http://www.citylab.com/>
Menu <#>

  * Commute <http://www.citylab.com/commute/>
  * Work <http://www.citylab.com/work/>
  * Housing <http://www.citylab.com/housing/>
  * Weather <http://www.citylab.com/weather/>
  * Crime <http://www.citylab.com/crime/>
  * Politics <http://www.citylab.com/politics/>
  * Design <http://www.citylab.com/design/>
  * Tech <http://www.citylab.com/tech/>

  * Navigator

    <http://www.citylab.com/navigator/>
  * CityFixer

    <http://www.citylab.com/cityfixer/>
  * Maps

    <http://www.citylab.com/posts/maps/>
  * Photos

    <http://www.citylab.com/posts/photos/>
  * Videos

    <http://www.citylab.com/posts/videos/>
  * Search

    <http://www.citylab.com/search/>
  *
      o

        <https://www.facebook.com/thisiscitylab>
      o

        <https://twitter.com/CityLab>
      o

        <https://www.linkedin.com/company/citylab-com>
      o

        <http://www.citylab.com/feeds/posts/>


    Ads are being blocked

For us to continue writing great stories, we need to display ads.

Un-block

<#blocker-msg-whitelist> Learn more

<http://www.citylab.com/faq/#21>
Back


    Whitelist

Please select the extension that is blocking ads.

Ad Block Plus

Ghostery

uBlock

Other Blockers

Back


Please follow the steps below


  One More Threat to San Francisco's Homeless: San Francisco Voters

A ballot measure is no way to try to solve a problem as complicated as
homelessness.

  * Kriston Capps <http://www.citylab.com/authors/kriston-capps/>
  * @kristoncapps <https://twitter.com/intent/user?screen_name=kristoncapps>
  * Jun 29, 2016
  * 22 Comments <#disqus_thread>

  *
  * Share on Facebook <#>
  * Tweet <#>
  * <#>
  * <mailto:?subject=One%20More%20Threat%20to%20San%20Francisco%27s%20Homeless%3A%20San%20Francisco%20Voters&body=A%20ballot%20measure%20is%20no%20way%20to%20try%20to%20solve%20a%20problem%20as%20complicated%20as%20homelessness.%0A%0ARead%20More:%0Ahttp%3A//www.citylab.com/housing/2016/06/brexit-and-san-francisco-ballot-measure-referendum-on-homeless-tent-camp-evictions/489215/%3Futm_source%3Deb>
  * <#>

A California man named Daryl, who is homeless, stands by his tent in an
encampment. (Robert Galbraith/Reuters)

Love CityLab? Make sure you're signed up for our free e-mail newsletter.

If #Brexit
<http://www.citylab.com/politics/2016/06/britain-after-brexit/488603/>
has taught the world anything, it’s that ballot measures may carry
unintended consequences. For both the United Kingdom and the European
Union, the fallout from the “Leave” vote appears to be profound. /The
Economist/’s Intelligence Unit predicts that the June 23 referendum will
reverse the U.K.’s economic recovery
<http://country.eiu.com/article.aspx?articleid=1054365689&Country=United%20Kingdom&topic=Economy&subtopic=Forecast&subsubtopic=Economic+growth>.
With leadership uncertain and hard-right politics rising across the
continent, the fate of the European Union is in question.

Voters in San Francisco face nothing so cataclysmic on the ballot this
fall (save for the vote for the U.S. presidency). But one referendum
that voters will decide will have enormous consequences for the city’s
most vulnerable population: people experiencing homelessness. In its own
way, the San Francisco referendum suffers from the same hastiness as the
vote that led to the crisis that is now tearing apart the U.K.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Part Of The

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/>


        Read more about it <https://sfhomelessproject.com/>

Go <https://sfhomelessproject.com/>
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The ballot measure, which is supported by San Francisco Supervisor Mark
Farrell, would effectively ban homeless camps and tents from San
Francisco streets
<http://www.sfgate.com/politics/article/Tent-city-law-headed-to-ballot-in-SF-8316714.php>.
A “yes” vote on the referendum would enable the city to forcibly remove
encampments 24 hours after providing notice and an offer of shelter. The
measure is an answer to residents’ mounting frustration with encampments
in the city and the hygiene problems that attend them.

Residents are right to be distressed. Many must be angry that the city
isn’t doing more to help its most vulnerable residents, and refuse to
accept homeless camps as an answer. Other voters may not care, of
course; they may simply want to see the city remove public eyesores from
the sidewalks, and in November, they’ll pull the lever for this measure
to make it happen. Either way, voters will “get the chance to prove just
how willing they are to see [encampments] forcibly cleared,” as /The San
Francisco Chronicle/
<http://www.sfgate.com/politics/article/Tent-city-law-headed-to-ballot-in-SF-8316714.php>’s
Emily Green puts it.

San Francisco deserves a better answer to homelessness than an
up-or-down vote.

The ballot is a heinous way to decide the fate of San Francisco’s nearly
7,000 homeless residents
<http://www.sfgate.com/news/article/Questions-about-San-Francisco-s-homeless-answered-8323297.php>.
A referendum enables the city’s most callous voters to indulge in
indifference, but that’s not even the worst of it. A referendum asks
many more voters to accept a short-term solution to homelessness by
pushing them out of sight and out of mind, which helps to foreclose on
the possibility of a viable long-term structural solution. This ballot
measure, like almost any ballot measure, shifts the risk of unintended
consequences off of San Francisco’s elected representatives and onto its
residents—specifically, those experiencing homelessness.  

Consider this ballot measure specifically. The measure would require the
city to identify short-term shelter for a person before she can be
evicted from an encampment. But there currently aren’t enough shelter
beds for the homeless population of the city. (This is one reason why so
many resort to sidewalk campsites, though not the only reason.) So the
measure may be doomed to fail—or rather, it may be doomed to fail
homeless residents.

Farrell, the measure’s sponsor, tells the /Chronicle /that the city is
adding to its number of beds and shelters. But if the shelters don’t add
up—if the law as enacted is unworkable, meaning that the city either
cannot evict the homeless from encampments because it cannot shelter
them, or that the city will evict the homeless without providing them
adequate shelter—no one winds up paying the price for the measure’s
shortcomings. Except for the homeless.

If a law were to be passed by the Board of Supervisors, on the other
hand, it would work differently—even if the law is identical to an
ordinance passed by ballot referendum. The difference is accountability.
Voters can hold representatives responsible for their votes on laws,
which gives representatives an incentive to make sure the law works.
Voters are less likely to hold themselves responsible for a failed
ballot measure. Even if they did, what would that look like? And what
would it matter to the homeless?

Come November, San Francisco voters may in fact face a /second/ ballot
measure regarding homelessness, one supported by Supervisor Aaron Peskin
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/dueling-sf-ballot-measures-emerge-homeless-tent-encampments/>.
This measure would call for stricter requirements for how much notice
the city must give a person before eviction and for how long the city
must provide shelter afterward. While this ballot measure does more to
provide for the safety and well-being of residents experiencing
homelessness, it does so through shelters that, again, do not appear to
exist.

Ballot measures disguise political downsides. Tackling the homelessness
crisis in a meaningful way involves a /lot/ of political downsides. In
Washington, D.C., Mayor Muriel Bowser introduced a plan to build a
network of homeless shelters around the city
<http://www.citylab.com/cityfixer/2016/02/dc-homeless-shelter-network-bowser/462489/>,
short-circuiting the typical neighborhood objections to specific
shelters by planning one in every city ward. Residents and D.C. Council
members have called for some changes and won some concessions, but the
mayor has blunted neighborhood-level objections by asking for sacrifice
and compassion from everyone.

A more detailed plan for San Francisco would no doubt prompt the same
criticisms that Mayor Bowser’s plan has drawn in D.C. A less-detailed
plan, on the other hand, may win more votes at the ballot—even if it
won’t work for removing encampments in a respectful way. A ballot
measure that bans tents without providing for the welfare of their
occupants is a less-detailed plan.

One complaint that critics have about #Brexit is that its motivations
were more political than policy oriented. Another is that it forged
common cause between voters motivated by hate and voters working with a
lack of information. Still another complaint is that it was enacted
without a plan for what the country would do if it succeeded. Too often,
ballot measures are instruments that politicians use to accomplish goals
that run contrary to the interests of the people affected most by them.
San Francisco deserves a better answer to a complex infrastructure
policy question like homelessness than an up-or-down vote.

  *
  * Share on Facebook <#>
  * Tweet <#>
  * <#>
  * <mailto:?subject=One%20More%20Threat%20to%20San%20Francisco%27s%20Homeless%3A%20San%20Francisco%20Voters&body=A%20ballot%20measure%20is%20no%20way%20to%20try%20to%20solve%20a%20problem%20as%20complicated%20as%20homelessness.%0A%0ARead%20More:%0Ahttp%3A//www.citylab.com/housing/2016/06/brexit-and-san-francisco-ballot-measure-referendum-on-homeless-tent-camp-evictions/489215/%3Futm_source%3Deb>
  * <#>

Presented by

  *
    Previous
    How Apps Can Help People With Disabilities Navigate Cities
    <http://www.citylab.com/navigator/2016/06/how-apps-help-people-with-disabilities-navigate-the-city/489128/>

  *
    Next
    No, Alphabet Isn't Conspiring to Take Over Public Transit in Columbus
    <http://www.citylab.com/commute/2016/06/columbus-sidewalk-labs-transit-flow/489044/>


Ads by Revcontent


      Around the Web

Inventions That Will Change The Way We Live Forever
Definition.org

<http://trends.revcontent.com/click.php?d=0VSpYItkUFf6Wrs50wcs3Q2vMx3DI0JAXXrJU%2BDVE1uAHWp5D0IwoXKMqJ4Ve5T%2FcM9FhJ8gWMHchl7cA%2BmwS6i7vdicQRWjcMk4YjAj%2FNDqRY1DmiB2gcyJBiZQJ6CxxoNO5SDumLSBCNRfKqrKZ8b2X8r95JI27GhyLqNudSfhAkb8zyeUpNXb5i7U7ooRJN8hnxGw0uH3HjGx8226LGjZ3k9HYAN8ANJIIcUbqbUeLRFQmf1O%2BjYim99%2FgTHgQBc10bNPAtC4siH2Xi3LnxdpNzdJdMgv8gmzRHrqNZrrsupFBUfUPu%2FON70%2BSEj0vmG2KOu70Q51xKspBNZcwXF%2BTB6nL%2FmaPp15rVmta2OZNLj0DtBS2fXoWuNRoRGL%2FRNrRp7F6lPE5MRW41jfVG2edTPK%2BwAvovmsINdLAqlmUEeDM4AiunCYDUUdWZeEFD2xN%2B3dY9VJw2vuKtEQYJUVZeSNakJMkL5zrZk7wfHG9ZKT6l%2FX0f3UOdzFxTNCHcnvyyGhbCYfR4oUfd2GPI6cbuNBty0tcsjmBJehO%2BuPPUYB7l7ef%2BFZK5EMpwQKdCHuBBiTPU67fU79IoniOaVHWnS1xnjUjmQ%2FcI7UXYrLkUptU5w4rJVzNJNbMajddtGEfZSy%2BdbNFzfts5pO2Q%3D%3D>
x
Prepare To Be Awestruck At The Sight Of Gene Wilder's Stunning Daughter
Your Daily Dish

<http://trends.revcontent.com/click.php?d=3hl6sjtWnRDFEdqzHIkEiSPcx9biJIs6L54pmPDGHQU6r4Flrl27cIEhfXcqVlZYcxMaY5Mkoi26%2BTiRuNGBifR8NtToVK0%2B6yqmXavIvAzfSQR3Zrnf%2FIcmLk3n4HgAFMiTfrBuQLNdCf5177pVeCgTidGp%2FwX8i8QTjVeOjFz6ANhySbCqUGBBEgUqUyZYP8FH8GPkvS%2FXjC7Kc5poh4oclw%2B7uegsjGzmHwgKlUeYo0k2NG6%2BUOUae8eFn2Suh3WqI8pMkszraiuAJhwEIP9Q8iFApaedmKwPAVnUqcmUMlESvgZ5Z%2BWpqHH60di4KFc%2FNJopQn8Q8DmQ6JmRqLwNLcEVSSU2eBkgfbwmMYhE7KX%2BozNDRGDNFuquCB4gy3DapqMN%2BveUdcOFk5y%2FyNpba4D%2B2jNtfYQMMH%2FOdVl%2FMr9Jk4iKZuV1oK5TcaqBBTYq7%2BhaQMMgSAyaBCcWBRnxFO%2FpljKOhMYuIr4fWCsMrhPbDYg4GE3%2BfztC1lHOaDkkKN97mw0C7sPDtFwCw5y238lxX1LVK37QfIU9uT%2BLdaZyomGgG6%2BccSb%2FP5PvxpE26gB5z6PFUjUvkicQDud7E5p2zILphVdf4aNsdlLgt6T%2BSntbftxnb%2FYvxg4p%2BLUVtjO%2FuTb8nwM4%2FhrKVWc8m%2BXEN1MD6F4FBtQNTco%3D>
x
How to Replace All Your Wedges with One Club!
XE1 Golf

<http://trends.revcontent.com/click.php?d=0ADDzHYk%2BSJ6mJYVRz4Z7CyzvbSq%2BviBkK%2FFPt4HqE65tXRI30F4NXMh8W8VYs51JIE4yoGOmfiH08gWUdjeWH8fLJxAr1qUeKA4%2BSscXkj1sYW2G0Id4ySXbj2X96D3qbWUP%2B%2Fq3tYvrwJDQW7QoxBaMyGwXvqC8Ot8m%2Ffm5tXqhr%2FdzmlIKkF%2Fe4uO016WYoLR6K5Qsy4lbRNq91MsdewZ%2BkE3XaynRvxz%2FjfOovYQeaQbWuOzJqI36KgV8w7IUXae1Q8rOGKs5IIfh2lacvnyg%2BWfiqmtznz8e51nNbzI7x4dA7MZhi0SUnJvTeBCugndq%2BCgsEbBwafglZmI023P%2BuWmnNPmuoWbrmgGWu0J9JCTuJldBTlvh8FG8%2BrLbFi3EjJDezW53jcsZVRa6DZHUOxHqSczk9fDYFMpOgOZBNa20r%2BZqLUxTBQ9whY1kUxQQk4CXKUDdvMczm2Q0bFTA0bKztoIarFMOIM82LLOKJZsxLsOUlKOeMPsAZvKDVVvY59sG79XuwEsMptaxeHS7HkBEAGq3ICsr0lHXJmwxUXVVSexrwRfikGkhY7cAsAAw5uvMYd53cW0g3dz3emI86y94dVRODxQ3pkVc0piZaqwMsKwd8oq6DsHOJ9NqN%2BGIyL20gF2p82DzZLW30Qf83Ogk%2F4g96hyp6hcT%2B0%3D>
x
Quantcast


    About the Author

  * Kriston Capps <http://www.citylab.com/authors/kriston-capps/>
    Kriston Capps is a staff writer at /CityLab/. More <#>

    Kriston Capps is a staff writer at CityLab, where he writes about
    housing, art and design. Previously, he was a senior editor at
    /Architect/ magazine.

      o All Posts <http://www.citylab.com/authors/kriston-capps/>
      o @kristoncapps
        <https://twitter.com/intent/user?screen_name=kristoncapps>
      o Feed <http://www.citylab.com/feeds/author/kriston-capps/>


Most Popular

 1. The St. Louis Accent: An Explainer
    <http://www.citylab.com/navigator/2016/11/the-st-louis-accent-an-explainer/507758/>
 2. Japan Fixed a Massive Sinkhole in Just One Week
    <http://www.citylab.com/tech/2016/11/fukuoka-japan-sinkhole-repair-video/507962/>
 3. Why Architects Are Outraged Over a Letter to Trump
    <http://www.citylab.com/politics/2016/11/architects-outraged-aia-letter-president-donald-trump/507698/>
 4. The Reality of Rural Resentment
    <http://www.citylab.com/politics/2016/11/the-reality-of-rural-resentment/507659/>
 5. Riding the Bus for a Slice of Old Portland
    <http://www.citylab.com/commute/2016/11/riding-the-bus-for-a-slice-of-old-portland/507905/>
 6. How Much Damage Will Trump Do to U.S. Climate Policy?
    <http://www.citylab.com/weather/2016/11/how-much-damage-will-trump-do-to-us-climate-policy/507887/>
 7. Restoring a Historic Athens Neighborhood, One House at a Time
    <http://www.citylab.com/cityfixer/2016/11/athens-greece-historic-houses-metaxourgeio-preservation-communitism/507602/>
 8. What Trump's Cabinet Could Do to National Parks
    <http://www.citylab.com/politics/2016/11/donald-trump-national-parks-service-interior-department-sarah-palin/507641/>
 9. What Is It Exactly That Makes Big Cities Vote Democratic?
    <http://www.citylab.com/politics/2013/02/what-makes-some-cities-vote-democratic/4598/>
10. One Man Scours San Francisco for the Traces of Film Noir
    <http://www.citylab.com/navigator/2016/11/san-francisco-noir-film-locations-reefsf-brian-hollins/506993/>

See All Stories <http://www.citylab.com/posts/>

 1.


    Newsletters


        CityLab, Straight to Your Inbox: Sign Up Here

    Go <http://www.citylab.com/newsletters/?utm_source=CLPromoModule>

 1.


    Let's Be Friends


        Don't Miss Our Latest Stories

    Go <https://www.facebook.com/thisiscitylab/>
 2.


    Store


        T-Shirts, Mugs, and More

    Go <http://www.zazzle.com/atlanticmedia/gifts?cg=196924976381926554>

Back To Top

<#site-header>

  * CityLab

    <http://www.citylab.com/>
  * Share

    <#>
  * Tweet

    <#>
  * Menu

    <#>

Through original reporting, sharp analysis, and visual storytelling,
/CityLab/ informs and inspires the people who are creating the cities of
the future—and those who want to live there.


      Follow

  * <https://www.facebook.com/thisiscitylab>
  * <https://twitter.com/intent/user?screen_name=CityLab>
  * <https://www.linkedin.com/company/citylab-com>
  * <http://www.citylab.com/feeds/posts/>


      Newsletter sign up

Today’s Top Stories

This Week’s Most Popular Stories

I want to receive updates from partners and sponsors.


    More About CityLab

  * Special Reports <http://www.citylab.com/special-report/>
  * FAQ <http://www.citylab.com/faq/>
  * Masthead <http://www.citylab.com/masthead/>
  * Contact Us <http://www.citylab.com/contact/>
  * Store <http://www.theatlantic.com/store/>
  * Atlantic Media <http://atlanticmedia.com/>
  * Jobs <http://www.atlanticmedia.com/careers/>
  * Advertise <http://advertising.theatlantic.com/>
  * Advertising Guidelines
    <http://cdn.theatlantic.com/static/front/docs/ads/TheAtlanticAdvertisingGuidelines.pdf>
  * Privacy <http://www.citylab.com/privacy-policy/>
  * Terms & Conditions <http://www.citylab.com/terms-conditions/>


    Elsewhere at Atlantic Media


The Atlantic

<http://theatlantic.com/>

  * Today's News: Nov. 17, 2016
    <http://www.theatlantic.com/liveblogs/2016/11/news-today/508001/?utm_source=feed>
  * How the Presidency Could Hurt the Trump Brand
    <http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2016/11/the-presidency-will-hurt-trumps-lucrative-brand/508058/?utm_source=feed>
  * The Atlantic Daily: Common Ground
    <http://www.theatlantic.com/newsletters/archive/2016/11/the-atlantic-daily-november-17-2016/508037/?utm_source=feed>


Quartz

<http://www.qz.com/>

  * In a surprise ceremony, dictator Ferdinand Marcos was given a hasty
    hero’s burial in the Philippines
    <http://qz.com/840761/in-a-surprise-ceremony-dictator-ferdinand-marcos-was-given-a-hasty-heros-burial-in-the-philippines/>
  * In photos: Please wait India, you are in queue!
    <http://qz.com/839763/in-photos-please-wait-india-you-are-in-queue-thanks-to-narendra-modis-demonetisation/>
  * JPMorgan’s “systemic bribery” in China was so blatant the bank had
    an internal spreadsheet to track it
    <http://qz.com/840705/jpmorgans-jpm-systemic-bribery-in-china-was-so-blatant-the-bank-had-an-internal-spreadsheet-to-track-it-the-sec-says/>

Copyright 2016 The Atlantic Monthly Group.

() Skip Ad >  
Advertisement

close
