Next Article
//
Just an advertisement

s
/

/

  * Sign In
    <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx?SentFromUrl=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.pressdemocrat.com%2F>
  * e-Edition
    <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx?SentFromUrl=eEdition>
  * Subscribe <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx>

s
Sections
/

/

  * Home

    <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/>
  * News

    <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/>
    /

    /
      o Local News

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/local/>
      o Arrest Logs

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/arrest/>
      o Towns

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/towns>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/obits/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/weather/>
      o Videos

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/video/>
      o Archives

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/archives/>
      o Gallery

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/gallery/>
      o Datacenter

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/datacenter/>
  * Opinion

    <http://pressdemocrat.com/opinion>
    /

    /
      o Editorials

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/editorials/>
      o Close to Home

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/closetohome/>
      o Letters

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/letters/>
      o Paul Gullixson

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=paulgullixson>
      o Pete Golis

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=petegolis>
  * Sports

    <http://pressdemocrat.com/sports>
    /

    /
      o PD Preps

        <http://www.pdpreps.com/>
      o NFL

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sports/nfl/>
      o NBA

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sports/nba/>
      o MLB

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sports/mlb/>
      o College

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sports/college/>
      o Kerry Benefield

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=kerrybenefield>
      o 49ers Blog

        <http://49ers.pressdemocrat.com/>
      o Bob Padecky

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=bobpadecky>
      o Lowell Cohn

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=lowellcohn>
      o Grant Cohn

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=grantcohn>
  * Business

    <http://pressdemocrat.com/business>
    /

    /
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/business/realestate/>
      o Business Journal

        <http://www.northbaybusinessjournal.com/>
      o People & Business

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/peopleinbusiness>
      o Book of Lists

        <http://lists.northbaybusinessjournal.com/index.htm>
      o Wine Business

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=winebusiness>
  * Food & Wine

    <http://pressdemocrat.com/lifestyle/food>
    /

    /
      o Bite Club

        <http://www.biteclubeats.com/>
      o Wine

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/lifestyle/wine>
      o Beer

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/topics/?t=pd-beer>
  * Lifestyle

    <http://pressdemocrat.com/lifestyle>
    /

    /
      o Home and Garden

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=homeandgarden>
      o Unions

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/unions>
      o Outdoors

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=outdoors>
      o Biteclub

        <http://www.biteclubeats.com/>
      o Beer

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/topics/?t=pd-beer>
      o Pets

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/lifestyle/pets/>
      o Celebrate Community

        <http://www.celebratecommunity.org/>
  * A & E

    <http://pressdemocrat.com/entertainment>
    /

    /
      o Games

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/games/>
      o Calendar

        <http://events.pressdemocrat.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.pressdemocrat.com/>
      o TV Blog + Listings

        <http://tv.blogs.pressdemocrat.com/>
      o Sudoku

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sudoku/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/horoscopes/>
  * Cars

    <http://www.northbaycarsearch.com/>
  * Blogs

    <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/blogs/>

/

/

/

/
Sections
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/> News
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/> Obits
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/obits/> Sports
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sports/> Business
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/business/> Opinion
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/> Food & Wine
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/lifestyle/food/> Lifestyle
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/lifestyle/> A&E
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/entertainment/> Events
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/events> Blogs
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/blogs/>
Subscribe

<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx>
//

You've read 5 of 15 free articles this month.
Support local journalism and get unlimited access to PressDemocrat.com,
the eEdition and our mobile app, all starting at 99 cents per month.
Already a subscriber?Sign In <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx>
Click Here to Subscribe
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx?SentFromUrl=http://www.pressdemocrat.com&type=Speedbump&bump=A1>

CLOSE X
<#>
You've read 10 of 15 free articles this month.
Support local journalism and get unlimited access to PressDemocrat.com,
the eEdition and our mobile app, all starting at 99 cents per month.
Already a subscriber?Sign In <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx>
Click Here to Subscribe
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx?SentFromUrl=http://www.pressdemocrat.com&type=Speedbump&bump=A2>

CLOSE X
<#>
You've read all of your free articles this month.
Support local journalism and get unlimited access to PressDemocrat.com,
the eEdition and our mobile app, all starting at 99 cents per month.
Already a subscriber?Sign In <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx>
Click Here to Subscribe
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx?SentFromUrl=http://www.pressdemocrat.com&type=Speedbump&bump=A3>

CLOSE X
<#>
We've got a special deal for readers like you.
Support local journalism and get unlimited access to PressDemocrat.com,
the eEdition and our mobile app, all starting at 99 cents per month.
Already a subscriber?Sign In <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx>
Click Here to Subscribe
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx?SentFromUrl=http://www.pressdemocrat.com&type=Speedbump&bump=B1>

CLOSE X
<#>
Thanks for reading! Why not subscribe?
Support local journalism and get unlimited access to PressDemocrat.com,
the eEdition and our mobile app, all starting at 99 cents per month.
Already a subscriber?Sign In <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx>
Click Here to Subscribe
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx?SentFromUrl=http://www.pressdemocrat.com&type=Speedbump&bump=B2>

CLOSE X
<#>
Want to keep reading? Subscribe today!
Ooops! You're out of free articles. Starting at just 99 cents per month,
you can keep reading all of our products and support local journalism.
Already a subscriber?Sign In <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx>
Click Here to Subscribe
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx?SentFromUrl=http://www.pressdemocrat.com&type=Speedbump&bump=B3>

CLOSE X
<#>
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/6315796-181/pd-editorial-president-elect-trump-deserves>

PD Editorial: President-elect Trump deserves time to prove himself
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/6315796-181/pd-editorial-president-elect-trump-deserves?ref=TSM>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/6314980-181/thursdays-letters-to-the-editor>

Thursday’s Letters to the Editor
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/6314980-181/thursdays-letters-to-the-editor?ref=TSM>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/6316487-181/the-last-word-the-press>
The Last Word: The Press Democrat’s write-a-caption contest
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/6316487-181/the-last-word-the-press?ref=TSM>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/6316517-181/the-last-word-our-top>
The Last Word: Our top picks from the write-a-caption contest
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/6316517-181/the-last-word-our-top?ref=TSM>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/6315031-181/mcmanus-some-advice-from-a>

McManus: Some advice from a GOP elder statesman
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/6315031-181/mcmanus-some-advice-from-a?ref=TSM>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/6315095-181/sizing-up-the-field-in>
Sizing up the field in California’s next big election
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/6315095-181/sizing-up-the-field-in?ref=TSM>



          *(1 of )* Morning light spreads under the Highway 101 over
          crossing on Sixth Street in Santa Rosa as a homeless man
          sleeps. (KENT PORTER / The Press Democrat)

prev
next
//
 <javascript:prevSlidePlease();> //
 <javascript:nextSlidePlease();>


  PD Editorial: Shining a light on homelessness everywhere

THE EDITORIAL BOARD
BY THE EDITORIAL BOARD | June 29, 2016

<#>

<#>

<#>


        SF Homeless Project

Read works on homelessness from dozens of Bay Area media organizations
at SF Homeless Project <http://www.sfgate.com/homeless/>.


News organizations from around the Bay Area are working together today
to shine a light on a problem that besets many California communities —
homelessness.

Soaring housing costs and a lapse in housing construction over the past
decade — along with inadequate public resources to deal with mental
illness, addictions and other issues that plague the chronically
homeless — have combined to create a nightmare scenario for those on the
margins.

Unfortunately, it’s a nightmare with which Press Democrat readers are
familiar.

According to official estimates, some 2,000 people are living without a
permanent place to call home in Sonoma County, a homelessness rate
that’s higher than San Francisco’s, which is the primary focus of
today’s media coverage.

Although census data show the homeless population in Sonoma County
declining 37 percent from 2011 and 2015 and dropping another 8 percent
last year, downtown merchants, shoppers and workers contend homelessness
is more visible than ever. That may be a result of ongoing efforts to
clear out homeless encampments near the railroad tracks in preparation
for the start of the SMART train service later this year. The visibility
also is related to a perceived increase in aggressive panhandling, as
well as outbursts by those suffering from mental illness.

What can’t be forgotten in the community debate about how to address the
problem is that nobody is more vulnerable that the homeless themselves.
This was demonstrated by the stabbing of a 32-year-old homeless man who
was found dead early Monday on a downtown Santa Rosa sidewalk. Cirak
Mateos Tesfazgi of Santa Rosa was the third homeless homicide victim in
Santa Rosa this year.

As Jennielynn Holmes, director of shelter and housing for Catholic
Charities, noted, the homeless “already feel exposed and so vulnerable.”
Ongoing concern about these homicides “adds another level of trauma and
uncertainty,” she said.

Attacks like this underscore the importance of “housing first”
initiatives, endorsed by local elected leaders, which are based on the
simple notion that the best chance for success for intervention programs
for homeless individuals — whether it involves taking medication,
committing to addition programs or keeping a job — begins with making
sure he or she has a permanent place to live.

In that area, Santa Rosa and Sonoma County can point to recent successes
including the grand opening earlier this month of the Palms Inn, a
104-unit former motel on Santa Rosa Avenue that has been converted into
permanent housing for homeless people, including veterans.

In March, Santa Rosa saw the opening of Dream Center, a short-term
housing facility for those 18-24 years old, some of whom aged out of the
foster care program and had no place else to go. According to Chief
Executive Officer Matt Martin, the center, which is the only one of its
kind between San Francisco and the Oregon border, has already reached
its first-year capacity of 40. Meanwhile, nearby Tamayo Village, a
similar facility, has also maxed out at 25 residents between the same ages.

But more work is needed as evidenced by the long lines that
traditionally form outside most homeless service programs around Sonoma
County and the long waits to get into assisted housing.

The issue has reached the point that, next month, the Santa Rosa City
Council will consider declaring a homeless emergency, a move that would
open up other programs to assist those living on the street.


        SF Homeless Project

Read works on homelessness from dozens of Bay Area media organizations
at SF Homeless Project <http://www.sfgate.com/homeless/>.

Most Popular Stories
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6320771-181/report-man-died-seeking-place>

Officials: Tourist dissolved in Yellowstone hot spring
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6320771-181/report-man-died-seeking-place?ref=most>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315200-181/brandon-maxfield-child-shooting-victim>

Willits man paralyzed by bullet as child remembered as 'smart,'
'exceptional'
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315200-181/brandon-maxfield-child-shooting-victim?ref=most>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315150-181/one-suspect-jailed-in-killing>

Additional suspects named in killing of Laytonville pot farmer; 1 turns
self in
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315150-181/one-suspect-jailed-in-killing?ref=most>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315535-181/witnesses-testify-against-santa-rosa>

Witnesses recount brawl that led to Santa Rosa woman plowing into
nightclub crowd
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315535-181/witnesses-testify-against-santa-rosa?ref=most>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6310477-181/first-lady-michelle-obama-honors>

Santa Rosa teen, tribal youth program honored at White House
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6310477-181/first-lady-michelle-obama-honors?ref=most>


Such a declaration is certainly warranted if only to confirm what many
already know — that Sonoma County and the rest of the Bay Area are in
crisis mode, and that if it weren’t for the efforts of many people, like
Holmes and Martin, who are already working tirelessly to provide
services to the homeless, this problem would be far worse than it is.

Related Stories
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/5772529-181/pushed-from-hidden-encampments-plight>

Plight of homeless grows more visible
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/5772529-181/pushed-from-hidden-encampments-plight?ref=related>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/5772604-181/santa-rosas-thousands-of-homeless>

Homeless camp life in Santa Rosa: free and filthy
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/5772604-181/santa-rosas-thousands-of-homeless?ref=related>


Government officials should keep that in mind as they search for simple
solutions to this complex problem. There are none. What’s needed is to
recognize those who already knows what works — and make sure they get
the time and resources to do their best.

Sponsored Contenton Press Democrat
A jump-start for clean transportation
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sponsored2?prx_t=9nQCAv44KArbcMA&ntv_fr>
A jump-start for clean transportation
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sponsored2?prx_t=9nQCAv44KArbcMA&ntv_fr>
By Tony Earley, Chairman & CEO, PG&E Corporation
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sponsored2?prx_t=9nQCAv44KArbcMA&ntv_fr>

After a disappointing 2015, when cheap gasoline drove electric vehicle
sales into the slow lane, this year’s market started with a roar. In a
single week, Tesla Motors booked 325,000 advance...

Recent Columns
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=lowellcohn>
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sports/6320161-184/lowell-cohn-andre-ward-vs>
*Lowell Cohn:* Ward vs. Kovalev a big fight like the old days
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sports/6320161-181/lowell-cohn-andre-ward-vs>
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=kerrybenefield>
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sports/6316087-184/benefield-playoffs-give-high-school>
*Benefield:* Playoffs give high school football rivals another shot at
each other
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sports/6316087-181/benefield-playoffs-give-high-school>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=chrissmith>
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315335-184/smith-late-nights-are-little>
*Smith:* Late nights are little trouble for this ‘Music Man’ duo
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315335-181/smith-late-nights-are-little>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=petegolis>
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/6292785-184/golis-making-good-on-the>
*Golis:* Making good on the promise of more housing
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/6292785-181/golis-making-good-on-the>
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=paulgullixson>
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/6270626-184/gullixson-dont-be-too-surprised>
*Gullixson:* Don’t be too surprised if … Trump wins
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/6270626-181/gullixson-dont-be-too-surprised>


Most Popular Stories
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6320771-181/report-man-died-seeking-place>

Officials: Tourist dissolved in Yellowstone hot spring
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6320771-181/report-man-died-seeking-place?ref=most>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315200-181/brandon-maxfield-child-shooting-victim>

Willits man paralyzed by bullet as child remembered as 'smart,'
'exceptional'
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315200-181/brandon-maxfield-child-shooting-victim?ref=most>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315150-181/one-suspect-jailed-in-killing>

Additional suspects named in killing of Laytonville pot farmer; 1 turns
self in
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315150-181/one-suspect-jailed-in-killing?ref=most>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315535-181/witnesses-testify-against-santa-rosa>

Witnesses recount brawl that led to Santa Rosa woman plowing into
nightclub crowd
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315535-181/witnesses-testify-against-santa-rosa?ref=most>


<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6310477-181/first-lady-michelle-obama-honors>

Santa Rosa teen, tribal youth program honored at White House
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6310477-181/first-lady-michelle-obama-honors?ref=most>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6311195-181/old-courthouse-square-reunification-project>

A reunified Old Courthouse Square for the holidays? Think again
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6311195-181/old-courthouse-square-reunification-project?ref=most>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315086-181/two-teens-arrested-in-santa>
2 arrested in Santa Rosa High theater vandalism
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315086-181/two-teens-arrested-in-santa?ref=most>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/home/6314656-181/father-and-son-who-died>
California dad, son who died in hiking accident loved to explore
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6314656-181/father-and-son-who-died?ref=most>


<javascript:showDisqus2016()>
  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
by Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Sponsored Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
You May Like
The Brofessional
<http://www.thebrofessional.net/unreal-photos-taken-tragic-moments-history/?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=LAZ%5FTheBrofessional%2Enet%2DDesktop%2DUS%2DFinalD&&utm_term=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_content=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F7b94434aa02f1f1210dc778c3cd86562.jpg&utm_campaign=Final+Images+Taken+Seconds+Before+Tragedy+Struck>Final
Images Taken Seconds Before Tragedy StruckThe Brofessional
<http://www.thebrofessional.net/unreal-photos-taken-tragic-moments-history/?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=LAZ%5FTheBrofessional%2Enet%2DDesktop%2DUS%2DFinalD&&utm_term=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_content=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F7b94434aa02f1f1210dc778c3cd86562.jpg&utm_campaign=Final+Images+Taken+Seconds+Before+Tragedy+Struck>
Undo
Trend Chaser
<http://www.trend-chaser.com/trending/frightening-pictures-view-daytime/?utm_source=tb&utm_medium=nytrng-pressdemocrat-tb&utm_term=9+Out+Of+10+People+Can%27t+Get+Through+These+Photos%2C+Can+You%3F-https%3A%2F%2Fconsole.brax-cdn.com%2Fcreatives%2Fb86bbc0b-1fab-4ae3-9b34-fef78c1a7488%2Fwoman_frightening_b3a42a9074f3a0182e888bd3c8a22f3d.png&utm_content=-7615896481188695752&utm_campaign=391455-tb>9
Out Of 10 People Can't Get Through These Photos, Can You?Trend Chaser
<http://www.trend-chaser.com/trending/frightening-pictures-view-daytime/?utm_source=tb&utm_medium=nytrng-pressdemocrat-tb&utm_term=9+Out+Of+10+People+Can%27t+Get+Through+These+Photos%2C+Can+You%3F-https%3A%2F%2Fconsole.brax-cdn.com%2Fcreatives%2Fb86bbc0b-1fab-4ae3-9b34-fef78c1a7488%2Fwoman_frightening_b3a42a9074f3a0182e888bd3c8a22f3d.png&utm_content=-7615896481188695752&utm_campaign=391455-tb>
Undo
Vital Reds Supplement
<http://gundrymd.com/cmd.php?ad=801094&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>How
To Fix Your Fatigue And Get More EnergyVital Reds Supplement
<http://gundrymd.com/cmd.php?ad=801094&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>
Undo
Lower My Bills
<https://www.lowermybills.com/lending/home-refinance/index.loan?sourceid=lmb-43857-83240&moid=147627&providerId=9628390&pkey1=nytrng-pressdemocrat&pkey2=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F2127352fefaa745fce6c5d115cef92eb.jpg&pkey3=Pay+Off+Your+House+At+A+Furious+Pace>Pay
Off Your House At A Furious PaceLower My Bills
<https://www.lowermybills.com/lending/home-refinance/index.loan?sourceid=lmb-43857-83240&moid=147627&providerId=9628390&pkey1=nytrng-pressdemocrat&pkey2=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F2127352fefaa745fce6c5d115cef92eb.jpg&pkey3=Pay+Off+Your+House+At+A+Furious+Pace>
Undo
YourCreditCardsMatters.com
<http://comparecreditcards.online/?utm_campaign=us-ccc-lp-web&utm_source=taboola&utm_content=baseline&adgroup=native&utm_term=nytrng-pressdemocrat>Here
Is How You Find Great Credit CardsYourCreditCardsMatters.com
<http://comparecreditcards.online/?utm_campaign=us-ccc-lp-web&utm_source=taboola&utm_content=baseline&adgroup=native&utm_term=nytrng-pressdemocrat>
Undo
Bankrate
<http://www.bankrate.com/lite/celebrity-money/richest-golfers-1.aspx?ic_id=tb_80002&pid=pm_tb65>Can
You Guess The Top 5 Richest Golfers In The World?Bankrate
<http://www.bankrate.com/lite/celebrity-money/richest-golfers-1.aspx?ic_id=tb_80002&pid=pm_tb65>
Undo
VitaPulse Supplement
<http://princetonnutrients.com/cmd.php?ad=746840&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>Heart
Attack Red Flags: Don’t Miss These WarningsVitaPulse Supplement
<http://princetonnutrients.com/cmd.php?ad=746840&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>
Undo
Zoo.com
<https://www.zoo.com/quiz/97-people-cant-identify-individual-countries-just-a-map-outline-can-you?mkcpgn=i600006625&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=paid&utm_campaign=Zoo-CountryOutline-Screenshots%28desktop%29&utm_term=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_content=Can+You+Identify+the+Countries+by+Their+Outline%3F+%28Quiz%29&sg_uid=utxSXZczT7GrSJWJqzKQ4w>Can
You Identify the Countries by Their Outline? (Quiz)Zoo.com
<https://www.zoo.com/quiz/97-people-cant-identify-individual-countries-just-a-map-outline-can-you?mkcpgn=i600006625&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=paid&utm_campaign=Zoo-CountryOutline-Screenshots%28desktop%29&utm_term=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_content=Can+You+Identify+the+Countries+by+Their+Outline%3F+%28Quiz%29&sg_uid=utxSXZczT7GrSJWJqzKQ4w>
Undo
Sponsored Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=hybrid-text-links-b:Below%20Article%20Text%20Links:>Sponsored
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=hybrid-text-links-b:Below%20Article%20Text%20Links:>
Promoted Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=hybrid-text-links-b:Below%20Article%20Text%20Links:>Promoted
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=hybrid-text-links-b:Below%20Article%20Text%20Links:>
From The WebYou May Also Like
These 17 Movies Almost Ended Very Differently (Head Cramp)(Head Cramp)

<http://headcramp.com/17-deleted-scenes/?as=2020010101085&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral&utm_term=nytrng-pressdemocrat>
Top 20 Famous Gay Men Who Married Women (POP Hitz)(POP Hitz)

<http://pophitz.com/top-20-famous-gay-men-who-married-women/?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=desktop&utm_content=nytrng-pressdemocrat>
Growth Hack Instagram for your Business (www.kickstagram.io)(www.kickstagram.io)

<https://www.kickstagram.io/quiz/?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>
21 Mind Blowing Photos that Haven’t Been Photoshopped (OMG-Whut)(OMG-Whut)

<http://omgwhut.com/21-mind-blowing-photos-that-havent-been-photoshopped/?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=mind-blowing-photos>
The One Little Device That's Going to Grow In The Market by 8000% (Sovereign Society)(Sovereign Society)

<http://oaetrk.com/click.php?c=67&key=626v3jq2mashuf8bo3e9r44u&campgroupid=A4D&campid=67.1028_TBL_W_N_A4D_PRL_WL_US&tsid=TBL&channelid=nytrng-pressdemocrat&orderid=%7Bcampaign%7D&tbl_click_id=CiRlZDU4NDk0Zi0xODA0LTRkYTktYTg3OC0yM2U4ZDk2MDU0ZjgSF2NsaWNremNsb2Nrei1zYy1maW5hbmNl&adid=AD4&channelid=nytrng-pressdemocrat&tbl_click_id=CiRlZDU4NDk0Zi0xODA0LTRkYTktYTg3OC0yM2U4ZDk2MDU0ZjgSF2NsaWNremNsb2Nrei1zYy1maW5hbmNl>
11 Worst College Degrees For Today's Job Market (The Investment Dr)(The Investment Dr)

<http://www.theinvestmentdr.com/11-worst-college-degrees-for-todays-job-market/54/875/?utm_source=Taboola&utm_medium=BlaG&utm_campaign=USAD&utm_term=nytrng-pressdemocrat>
Belva Davis at Petaluma Copperfield's, Excerpt 2

<http://video.pressdemocrat.com/video/885549986001>
  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=hybrid-text-links-b:Below%20Article%20Text%20Links:>  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=hybrid-text-links-b:Below%20Article%20Text%20Links:>
by Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=hybrid-text-links-b:Below%20Article%20Text%20Links:>by
Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=hybrid-text-links-b:Below%20Article%20Text%20Links:>

  * News <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/>
  * Opinion <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/>
  * Sports <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sports/>
  * Entertainment <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/entertainment/>
  * Wine Country Life <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/lifestyle/>
  * Business <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/business/>
  * Find Events <http://events.pressdemocrat.com/>
  * Archives <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/archives>

Find it Fast

  * Obituaries <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/obits/>
  * Columnists <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/columnists/>
  * Dining Out <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/lifestyle/dining/>
  * Events Calendar <http://events.pressdemocrat.com/>
  * Real Estate <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/business/realestate/>
  * Cars <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/business/cars/>
  * Unions <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/topics/?t=pd-unions>
  * Food & Recipes <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/lifestyle/food/>
  * Local Headlines <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/>
  * Santa Rosa News <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/>
  * Towns <http://towns.pressdemocrat.com/>

Other Sections

  * Letters to the Editor <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/letters/>
  * Public/Legal Notices <http://www.capublicnotice.com/>
  * Weather <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/weather/>
  * Arrest Reports <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/arrest/>
  * This Week's Headlines <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/>
  * Editorials <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/editorials/>
  * BiteClub <http://www.biteclubeats.com/>
  * High School Sports <http://www.pdpreps.com/>
  * Scores <http://pressdemocrat.stats.com/>
  * Blogs <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/blogs/>

Contact + Help

  * Contact Us <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/contactus>
  * Advertising <http://www.pdmediasource.com/>
  * Corrections <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/corrections>
  * Letters to the Editor <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/letters/>
  * About Us <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/about>
  * Special Sections/Magazines
    <http://santarosapressdemocrat.ca.newsmemory.com/ssindex.php>
  * Staff Directory <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/staff-directory/>
  * Data Center <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/datacenter/>
  * Purchase Photos
    <https://store.pressdemocrat.com/pages/press-democrat-reprints>
  * FAQ <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/faq>
  * Classified Ads <http://classifieds.pressdemocrat.com/>

Subscribers

  * Manage Home Delivery <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx>
  * Subscribe <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx>
  * e-Edition
    <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx?SentFromUrl=eEdition>
  * RSS Feeds
    <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/multimedia/2013908-181/rss-feeds>
  * News in Education <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news-in-education>

<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx>
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/LinkAnExistingSubscription.aspx>
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx>
<javascript:showArticle();>
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx>
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/LinkAnExistingSubscription.aspx>
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx>
<javascript:showArticle();>
