skip to main content

<#main-content>
KALW logo <http://kalw.org/>
Site Menu <#> Donate

<https://donate.nprstations.org/kalw/>

  * Menu <#>

  * HOME

    <http://kalw.org/>
  * PROGRAMS

    <http://kalw.org/programs>
      o


                  back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o PROGRAMS <http://kalw.org/programs>
      o On-Air Schedule

        <http://kalw.org/schedule/kalw>
      o Programs A-Z

        <http://kalw.org/programs>
      o Podcasts

        <http://kalw.org/subscribe>
      o Program Guide PDF

        <http://mediad.publicbroadcasting.net/p/kalw/files/201610/KALW_FALL_2016.pdf>

      o Printable Program Grid

        <http://mediad.publicbroadcasting.net/p/kalw/files/201610/KALW_FALL_2016_Center.pdf>

  * CROSSCURRENTS

    <http://kalw.org/programs/crosscurrents>
      o


                  back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o CROSSCURRENTS <http://kalw.org/programs/crosscurrents>
      o Crosscurrents

        <http://kalw.org/programs/crosscurrents>
      o • Audiograph

        <http://kalw.org/programs/audiograph>
      o • Bay Area Beats

        <http://kalw.org/term/bay-area-beats>
      o • The Bridge

        <http://kalw.org/programs/bridge>
      o • Cannabis News Roundup

        <http://kalw.org/term/cannabis-news-roundup>
      o • Hey Area

        <http://kalw.org/programs/hey-area-you-ask-we-answer>
      o • Litography

        <http://kalw.org/term/litography>
      o • San Quentin Prison Report

        <http://kalw.org/term/san-quentin-prison-report>
      o • Spiritual Edge

        <http://kalw.org/term/spiritual-edge>
      o • StoryCorps

        <http://kalw.org/topic/storycorps>
      o • The Stoop

        <http://kalw.org/programs/stoop>
      o • Today's Local Music

        <http://kalw.org/term/local-music>
  * YOUR CALL

    <http://kalw.org/programs/your-call-2>
  * MUSIC & ARTS

    <http://kalw.org/programs>
      o


                  back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o MUSIC & ARTS <http://kalw.org/programs>
      o LOCAL MUSIC PLAYER

        <http://kalw.org/local-music-player>
      o Africa Mix

        <http://kalw.org/programs/africa-mix>
      o A Patchwork Quilt

        <http://kalw.org/programs/patchwork-quilt>
      o Bluegrass Signal

        <http://kalw.org/programs/bluegrass-signal>
      o Blues Power Hour

        <http://kalw.org/programs/blues-power-hour>
      o Explorations in Music

        <http://kalw.org/programs/explorations-music>
      o Fascinatin' Rhythm

        <http://kalw.org/programs/fascinatin-rhythm>
      o #FSFSF Comedy

        <http://kalw.org/programs/FSFSF>
      o Fog City Blues

        <http://kalw.org/programs/fog-city-blues>
      o Folk Music & Beyond

        <http://kalw.org/programs/folk-music-beyond>
      o Liner Notes

        <http://kalw.org/programs/liner-notes>
      o Music from Other Minds

        <http://kalw.org/programs/music-other-minds-kalw-0>
      o Music from the Hearts of Space

        <http://kalw.org/programs/music-hearts-space>
      o My Mixtape

        <http://kalw.org/topic/my-mixtape>
      o Open Air

        <http://kalw.org/programs/open-air-0>
      o Record Shelf

        <http://kalw.org/programs/record-shelf>
      o Revolutions Per Minute

        <http://kalw.org/programs/revolutions-minute>
      o Sights & Sounds

        <http://kalw.org/programs/sights-sounds>
      o Sound Opinions

        <http://kalw.org/programs/sound-opinions>
      o Tangents

        <http://kalw.org/programs/tangents-kalw>
      o Thistle & Shamrock

        <http://kalw.org/programs/thistle-shamrock>
  * ABOUT

    <http://kalw.org/about-kalw>
      o


                  back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o ABOUT <http://kalw.org/about-kalw>
      o Community calendar

        <http://kalw.org/community-calendar>
      o Contact us

        <http://kalw.org/contact-us>
      o Directions to our studios

        <http://kalw.org/directions-our-studios>
      o Financial information

        <http://kalw.org/node/710>
      o History & mission

        <http://kalw.org/about-kalw>
      o Online community expectations

        <http://kalw.org/community-expectations#stream/0>
      o Our people

        <http://kalw.org/people/capacity/staff>
      o Work with us

        <http://kalw.org/work-us#stream/0>
  * SUPPORT

    <https://donate.nprstations.org/kalw/>
      o


                  back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o SUPPORT <https://donate.nprstations.org/kalw/>
      o Donate Now

        <https://donate.nprstations.org/kalw/>
      o Sustaining Membership

        <http://kalw.org/sustaining-membership>
      o Employer Matching Gifts

        <http://kalw.org/employer-matching-gifts>
      o Stock Donations

        <http://kalw.org/stock-donations>
      o Vehicle Donation

        <http://kalw.org/vehicle-donation>
      o Agent Match Me

        <http://kalw.org/agent-match-me>
      o Volunteer

        <http://kalw.org/volunteer>
      o KALW's Wish List

        <http://kalw.org/wish-list>
  * SEARCH

    <http://kalw.org/search/google>

Listen Live KALW
RadioLab
NEXT: 11PM Your Call re-broadcast
KALW
RadioLab

  *
    KALW
    RadioLab
    <http://live.str3am.com:2430/> 

  * Menu <#>

  * HOME

    <http://kalw.org/>
  * PROGRAMS

    <http://kalw.org/programs>
      o


                  back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o PROGRAMS <http://kalw.org/programs>
      o On-Air Schedule

        <http://kalw.org/schedule/kalw>
      o Programs A-Z

        <http://kalw.org/programs>
      o Podcasts

        <http://kalw.org/subscribe>
      o Program Guide PDF

        <http://mediad.publicbroadcasting.net/p/kalw/files/201610/KALW_FALL_2016.pdf>

      o Printable Program Grid

        <http://mediad.publicbroadcasting.net/p/kalw/files/201610/KALW_FALL_2016_Center.pdf>

  * CROSSCURRENTS

    <http://kalw.org/programs/crosscurrents>
      o


                  back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o CROSSCURRENTS <http://kalw.org/programs/crosscurrents>
      o Crosscurrents

        <http://kalw.org/programs/crosscurrents>
      o • Audiograph

        <http://kalw.org/programs/audiograph>
      o • Bay Area Beats

        <http://kalw.org/term/bay-area-beats>
      o • The Bridge

        <http://kalw.org/programs/bridge>
      o • Cannabis News Roundup

        <http://kalw.org/term/cannabis-news-roundup>
      o • Hey Area

        <http://kalw.org/programs/hey-area-you-ask-we-answer>
      o • Litography

        <http://kalw.org/term/litography>
      o • San Quentin Prison Report

        <http://kalw.org/term/san-quentin-prison-report>
      o • Spiritual Edge

        <http://kalw.org/term/spiritual-edge>
      o • StoryCorps

        <http://kalw.org/topic/storycorps>
      o • The Stoop

        <http://kalw.org/programs/stoop>
      o • Today's Local Music

        <http://kalw.org/term/local-music>
  * YOUR CALL

    <http://kalw.org/programs/your-call-2>
  * MUSIC & ARTS

    <http://kalw.org/programs>
      o


                  back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o MUSIC & ARTS <http://kalw.org/programs>
      o LOCAL MUSIC PLAYER

        <http://kalw.org/local-music-player>
      o Africa Mix

        <http://kalw.org/programs/africa-mix>
      o A Patchwork Quilt

        <http://kalw.org/programs/patchwork-quilt>
      o Bluegrass Signal

        <http://kalw.org/programs/bluegrass-signal>
      o Blues Power Hour

        <http://kalw.org/programs/blues-power-hour>
      o Explorations in Music

        <http://kalw.org/programs/explorations-music>
      o Fascinatin' Rhythm

        <http://kalw.org/programs/fascinatin-rhythm>
      o #FSFSF Comedy

        <http://kalw.org/programs/FSFSF>
      o Fog City Blues

        <http://kalw.org/programs/fog-city-blues>
      o Folk Music & Beyond

        <http://kalw.org/programs/folk-music-beyond>
      o Liner Notes

        <http://kalw.org/programs/liner-notes>
      o Music from Other Minds

        <http://kalw.org/programs/music-other-minds-kalw-0>
      o Music from the Hearts of Space

        <http://kalw.org/programs/music-hearts-space>
      o My Mixtape

        <http://kalw.org/topic/my-mixtape>
      o Open Air

        <http://kalw.org/programs/open-air-0>
      o Record Shelf

        <http://kalw.org/programs/record-shelf>
      o Revolutions Per Minute

        <http://kalw.org/programs/revolutions-minute>
      o Sights & Sounds

        <http://kalw.org/programs/sights-sounds>
      o Sound Opinions

        <http://kalw.org/programs/sound-opinions>
      o Tangents

        <http://kalw.org/programs/tangents-kalw>
      o Thistle & Shamrock

        <http://kalw.org/programs/thistle-shamrock>
  * ABOUT

    <http://kalw.org/about-kalw>
      o


                  back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o ABOUT <http://kalw.org/about-kalw>
      o Community calendar

        <http://kalw.org/community-calendar>
      o Contact us

        <http://kalw.org/contact-us>
      o Directions to our studios

        <http://kalw.org/directions-our-studios>
      o Financial information

        <http://kalw.org/node/710>
      o History & mission

        <http://kalw.org/about-kalw>
      o Online community expectations

        <http://kalw.org/community-expectations#stream/0>
      o Our people

        <http://kalw.org/people/capacity/staff>
      o Work with us

        <http://kalw.org/work-us#stream/0>
  * SUPPORT

    <https://donate.nprstations.org/kalw/>
      o


                  back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o SUPPORT <https://donate.nprstations.org/kalw/>
      o Donate Now

        <https://donate.nprstations.org/kalw/>
      o Sustaining Membership

        <http://kalw.org/sustaining-membership>
      o Employer Matching Gifts

        <http://kalw.org/employer-matching-gifts>
      o Stock Donations

        <http://kalw.org/stock-donations>
      o Vehicle Donation

        <http://kalw.org/vehicle-donation>
      o Agent Match Me

        <http://kalw.org/agent-match-me>
      o Volunteer

        <http://kalw.org/volunteer>
      o KALW's Wish List

        <http://kalw.org/wish-list>
  * SEARCH

    <http://kalw.org/search/google>

Related Program: 
Crosscurrents

<http://kalw.org/programs/crosscurrents>


  Periods are a monthly crisis for homeless women

By Liz Pfeffer <http://kalw.org/people/liz-pfeffer> /•/ Jun 27, 2016
Related Program: 
Crosscurrents

<http://kalw.org/programs/crosscurrents>
Tweet

<http://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.tinyurl.com%2Fo4vqwkw&text=Periods%20are%20a%20monthly%20crisis%20for%20homeless%20women>Share

<http://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.tinyurl.com%2Fo4vqwkw&t=Periods%20are%20a%20monthly%20crisis%20for%20homeless%20women>Google+

<https://plus.google.com/share?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.tinyurl.com%2Fo4vqwkw>Email

<mailto:?subject=Periods%20are%20a%20monthly%20crisis%20for%20homeless%20women&body=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.tinyurl.com%2Fo4vqwkw>

  *
    "For free at the ladies room," by Flickr user Frances Bean. Used
    under Creative Commons license. http://bit.ly/298lzeu

    <http://mediad.publicbroadcasting.net/p/kalw/files/styles/x_large/public/201510/19388525656_54f24bddb1_o.jpg>

    "For free at the ladies room," by Flickr user Frances Bean. Used
    under Creative Commons license. http://bit.ly/298lzeu

<http://cpa.ds.npr.org/kalw/audio/2016/06/WEB.HomelessPeriod.mp3>
Listen
Listening...
0:00
/ 6:47

Being homeless means it's a daily challenge to get your basic needs met:
eating, bathing and using the bathroom. For many women, one extra
challenge arises every month when they get their period. 

What do you do without access to sanitary products, toilets or a safe
place to change your clothes—let alone shower? It’s an often-overlooked
issue for homeless women, who are already dealing with the other
challenges of being homeless.

Kristen Devlin knows this all too well. She’s hanging out at a homeless
encampment under an Interstate 80 overpass in San Francisco. Her arms
are covered in cuts and scars and she’s reading a zombie novel. She’s 31
years old and gets a regular period—she even has an app on her phone to
track it.

“It sucks—one of the hardest things really has got to be just finding
places to change ... that and washing your clothes,” says Devlin.
“Hydrogen peroxide can be easily gotten, it's hella cheap at the dollar
stores and stuff, but I mean yeah, dude, yeah, and supply.”

For homeless women in San Francisco, supplies like pads and tampons
aren’t that hard to come by if you know where to look. Shelters are
required to provide feminine hygiene products. For Devlin, her product
of choice is the DivaCup, a menstrual cup, because you can leave it in
longer than a tampon, and reuse it.

“And it is cheaper than tampons, dude,” she says. “But it’s messy.”

And when you’re homeless, finding a bathroom or safe place to change is
tough. So when your period is messy—as they often are—it can feel like a
nightmare.

“While there are a lot of really wonderful resources that are both open
to men and women, there are a lot of different needs for those
populations,” says Kemi Role, who leads street outreach services for San
Francisco’s Women’s Community Clinic.

“And if you can imagine a homeless woman who might be struggling with
issues of trauma, issues of violence, might be currently using—going
into a male-dominated space might not be the safest space for her.”

The street outreach program provides hygiene supplies from toothpaste to
tampons to between 90 and 150 homeless women a week. When a homeless
woman doesn’t have immediate access to sanitary products, Role says it
can look a few different ways.

“From doing things like makeshift supplies such as using toilet paper,
even though again, for someone who's under-resourced, having access to
something like toilet paper is actually pretty significant, and
oftentimes our clients don't have anything, so they may be bleeding in
their clothes,” she says.

And having soiled clothes can add to the judgment around the appearance
and odor of homeless people, Role says. Not only is it humiliating and
damaging to a woman’s self esteem, there’s also a physical health risk.
Poor health is closely related to homelessness and improvising with
unsanitary products or leaving them in too long can lead to vaginal
infections that lower the immune system.

For Anna, who asked that her last name not be used, maintaining her
health when she became homeless two years ago was really hard.

“It's not like you have something in the library that gives you a
handbook, 'How to be homeless,' or where to find all these resources”
she says.

Anna was displaced from her apartment and found herself living on the
street. Today, she’s getting a free lunch at Martin de Porres House of
Hospitality on Potrero. Lunch today is a big bowl of soup and salad. She
says her first six months of homelessness were absolute misery, and even
harder because of her period.

“You want to preserve your dignity as a human being and especially as a
woman the best that you can,” Anna says. “It is hard especially with
nowhere to go to wash, to shower, to change ... there were times when I
did have a clean change of outfit with me in my backpack but there was
no place where I could safely change.”

Although Anna encountered other homeless women with the same problem,
she says she’s never discussed it with them.

“Sometimes it's almost too painful to discuss something like this once
you've gone through it,” she says. “A lot of times when a person is just
getting into a situation that is really new and difficult in that way
you can't really connect with others easily, and you don't know where to
go for resources. There is no one centralized place.”

Anna says eventually she figured it out. During the day she would hang
around libraries with public restrooms so she had access to a toilet.
When her food stamps kicked in she would use them at 24-hour fast food
restaurants with restrooms for paying customers.

But even if you are a paying customer, many bathrooms have done away
with tampon vending machines. Recently, there’s a growing movement
pushing to make tampons and pads as available as toilet paper in all
bathrooms.

Nancy Kramer has been interested in the tampon problem since 1982 when
she visited Apple headquarters in Cupertino and saw free tampons and
pads in a women’s restroom for the first time.

A lot of the Bay Area companies offer that and a lot of more progressive
businesses do,” Kramer says. "But it's absent in the airport in San
Francisco, it's absent in a lot of restaurants in San Francisco, it's
absent in the schools in San Francisco—so there are many places that it
absolutely is not the case where those items are accessible to people
when they need it.”

Kramer isn’t a homeless advocate. She’s a women’s advocate. She started
an organization called Free the Tampons to push for free feminine
hygiene products in every bathroom nationwide, at the expense of the
business owner.

The organization has also been working to help develop timed tampon
dispensers that would prevent abuse of free products. But, she says, if
men got periods this wouldn’t even be a conversation.

“We have toilet papers that takes care of the other bodily functions
that we use the restroom for, but I think it's a bit of a gender
equality issue,” she says.

Internationally, tampon drives, like canned food drives for people in
need, are growing in popularity. Last year, a crowd-funding campaign
raised over $4000 to distribute period packs with sanitary napkins,
tampons, and wipes to homeless women in the Bay Area.

Some people acknowledge that it’s an overlooked basic need. But even if
sanitary products become accessible to every woman, homeless women in
San Francisco will still struggle to find safe places to use them.

/This piece first aired on October 28, 2015./

Tags: 
Women's health <http://kalw.org/term/womens-health>
Homelessness <http://kalw.org/term/homelessness>
Periods <http://kalw.org/term/periods>
menstruation <http://kalw.org/term/menstruation>
Women's Community Clinic <http://kalw.org/term/womens-community-clinic>
homeless <http://kalw.org/term/homeless>
San Francisco <http://kalw.org/term/san-francisco>
public health <http://kalw.org/term/public-health>
reproductive health <http://kalw.org/term/reproductive-health>
poverty <http://kalw.org/term/poverty>
health <http://kalw.org/term/health>
health issues <http://kalw.org/term/health-issues>
Tampon <http://kalw.org/term/tampon>
housing <http://kalw.org/term/housing>
Clinic <http://kalw.org/term/clinic>
Homeless women <http://kalw.org/term/homeless-women>
DivaCup <http://kalw.org/term/divacup>
safety <http://kalw.org/term/safety>
health care <http://kalw.org/term/health-care>
Tweet
<http://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.tinyurl.com%2Fo4vqwkw&text=Periods%20are%20a%20monthly%20crisis%20for%20homeless%20women>Share
<http://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.tinyurl.com%2Fo4vqwkw&t=Periods%20are%20a%20monthly%20crisis%20for%20homeless%20women>Google+
<https://plus.google.com/share?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.tinyurl.com%2Fo4vqwkw>Email
<mailto:?subject=Periods%20are%20a%20monthly%20crisis%20for%20homeless%20women&body=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.tinyurl.com%2Fo4vqwkw>


      Related Content

  * <http://kalw.org/post/black-sheep>
    <http://kalw.org/post/black-sheep>
    <http://kalw.org/post/black-sheep><http://kalw.org/post/black-sheep>


                The Black Sheep <http://kalw.org/post/black-sheep>

    1 year ago

  * <http://kalw.org/post/your-call-what-are-everyday-inequalities-us-healthcare-system>
    <http://kalw.org/post/your-call-what-are-everyday-inequalities-us-healthcare-system>
    <http://kalw.org/post/your-call-what-are-everyday-inequalities-us-healthcare-system><http://kalw.org/post/your-call-what-are-everyday-inequalities-us-healthcare-system>



                Your Call: What are the everyday inequalities in the
                U.S. healthcare system?
                <http://kalw.org/post/your-call-what-are-everyday-inequalities-us-healthcare-system>


    1 year ago

  * <http://kalw.org/post/interview-susan-buchbinder>
    <http://kalw.org/post/interview-susan-buchbinder>
    <http://kalw.org/post/interview-susan-buchbinder><http://kalw.org/post/interview-susan-buchbinder>



                Interview: Susan Buchbinder
                <http://kalw.org/post/interview-susan-buchbinder>

    1 year ago

  * © 2016 KALW

