KQED Menu

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Menu

    <#>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs & Blogs

        <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Special Coverage

        <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs <#> Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California


  KQED News <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

Search

<#search-container>


  KQED News Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Search for:

The California Report
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>


  Persistence, Community Support Help S.F. Neighborhood Fight Homelessness

In early June, Kristie Fairchild (right) hugs her client, Diane
Tomasello, who was homeless and had lost her front teeth. About a year
ago, Fairchild and the North Beach Citizens staff helped Tomasello find
housing and replace her missing teeth.

In early June, Kristie Fairchild (right) hugs her client, Diane
Tomasello, who was homeless and had lost her front teeth. About a year
ago, Fairchild and the North Beach Citizens staff helped Tomasello find
housing and replace her missing teeth. (/Deborah Svoboda/KQED/)

By Stephanie Martin Taylor <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/smartin/>
<http://twitter.com/@SMartinTaylor>
June 28, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/persistence-community-support-help-san-francisco-neighborhood-fight-homelessness/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/persistence-community-support-help-san-francisco-neighborhood-fight-homelessness/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/persistence-community-support-help-san-francisco-neighborhood-fight-homelessness/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/persistence-community-support-help-san-francisco-neighborhood-fight-homelessness/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/persistence-community-support-help-san-francisco-neighborhood-fight-homelessness/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/persistence-community-support-help-san-francisco-neighborhood-fight-homelessness/?share=email&nb=1>
*

Private chef Marc Vogel cooks for wealthy clients around the world, and
he just returned home from a very long trip to Mali and Turkey. But
despite his jet lag, he’s dropping off a bag of old clothes at a San
Francisco neighborhood homeless resource center called North Beach
Citizens <http://northbeachcitizens.org/>.

“I have my assistant go through the house, and I take it over because
everybody here can use it,” Vogel says. He also occasionally cooks at
the center’s annual fundraiser, an Italian-style dinner hosted by the
center’s famous founder, film director Francis Ford Coppola. (Until
recently, Coppola cooked the meatballs himself.)

“Say what you want about Coppola,” gushes Vogel. “At least he’s making
it happen!”

As San Francisco struggles for solutions to homelessness, North Beach
Citizens is viewed by many homeless advocates as a success story, and
one that could be replicated in other communities.

“They do really good work. I think they’re a beautiful part of that
community,” says Jennifer Friedenbach, executive director of the
Coalition on Homelessness <http://www.cohsf.org/>. “We certainly have a
lot of money in San Francisco and a lot of private donors that could
invest in (replicating) this.”

Coppola founded the center about 15 years ago to help the homeless
people he encountered on his daily walks through the neighborhood. It is
currently housed in a former porn theater on a busy stretch of Kearny
Street that includes pizza restaurants, strip clubs, residents and tourists.

Hideaki Hirama reads the paper and eats his breakfast at the North Beach
Citizens center.
Hideaki Hirama reads the paper and eats his breakfast at the North Beach
Citizens center. (Deborah Svoboda/KQED)

“It’s a community,” says Kristie Fairchild, a former ceramics artist who
Coppola tapped to be the center’s executive director. During morning
drop-in hours, clients chat quietly as they sip coffee and eat pizza
focaccia donated from a local bakery
<http://www.sfgate.com/bayarea/nativeson/article/Liguria-Bakery-in-North-Beach-makes-focaccia-2368406.php>.

“It’s a really sweet atmosphere — a gentle, enjoyable kind of coffee
shop environment,” Fairchild says.

*Homelessness is a complex issue. Learn more >>
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>*

sfproject3 <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>

Against this backdrop, North Beach Citizens offers intensive case
management to anyone ready to do what it takes to get off the street.
The solutions are as individual as the people themselves.

Take Michael Kelly, 46, who’s been homeless for about 15 years. Kelly
wants to reconnect with his family. One of Fairchild’s community
partners, a group called Miracle Messages
<http://www.miraclemessages.org/>, is helping him do that.

“They got me in contact with my mom after 10 years on Mother’s Day. She
freaked out!” says Kelly. “Now I have my sister’s number. I haven’t
talked to her in 15 years.”

For others, North Beach Citizens /is/ family. Larry Prescott, 75, comes
here almost every week to check in with Fairchild and other caseworkers.
A few years ago, he was evicted from his apartment and wound up
homeless, sleeping on the streets.

“Because of my age, Kristie took really good care of me. And she put me
up in a hotel,” Prescott says.

Now he lives in a single-room-occupancy hotel in the Mission District,
and he says caseworkers are helping him navigate public housing waiting
lists.

“It’s a great program,” Prescott says. “A lot of these people you see
here, any other program would tell them, ‘Take a hike.’ So, I’m a lucky
guy.’ ”

A client waits to be let in to North Beach Citizens during morning
drop-in hours. June 8, 2016
A client waits to be let in to North Beach Citizens during morning
drop-in hours. (Deborah Svoboda/KQED)

There are currently about 75 people enrolled in North Beach Citizens’
core program <http://www.northbeachcitizens.org/core-program/>. Twenty
are homeless, and the rest are in some type of temporary or permanent
housing. Fairchild says that since 2005, her staff has helped more than
300 people out of homelessness.

She concedes the resource center is one of a kind in some ways. Having a
celebrity benefactor like Coppola certainly helped. And while many
nonprofits in San Francisco are losing their facilities because of the
city’s hot real estate market, North Beach Citizens’ building was
purchased for them by an anonymous donor.

But Fairchild says that with a little creativity, other neighborhoods
could adopt the model even without these advantages.

“He doesn’t give us a dime anymore,” Fairchild says. Coppola always
believed that once North Beach Citizens was up and running, it would
need to “sink or swim” on its own. “It’s my board of directors that
engages the community to support us,” she says.

Fairchild says key ingredients needed to replicate the program include a
caring staff that knows the neighborhood, a welcoming physical space
where clients can engage with caseworkers and one another, and — perhaps
most importantly — community buy-in.

“We’re not doing this in a vacuum,” she says. “In North Beach, I think
people understand what we’re doing here benefits the community because
we’re getting people off the streets.”

“It’s a solid thing,” says David Hlopak, a tech executive who lives in
the neighborhood. “I mean, of all the charities that I’ve seen out
there, it’s like the rubber hits the road and the money and the
resources you donate to it get used.”

Sam Dodge, who directs the mayor’s Office of HOPE (Housing Opportunity,
Partnerships & Engagement), agrees that a program like this “takes some
funds. It’s a lot to maintain. It’s hard to find places. But it’s not
/that/ hard. There are places in every neighborhood that can welcome this.”

Fairchild says she can’t help everyone who lands on her doorstep. The
program has strict rules, and some people aren’t ready or able to follow
them.

But she doesn’t get discouraged. She only wishes more San Francisco
communities would leverage their wealth and talent to make ending
homelessness a neighborhood priority.

Explore: Housing <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>, News
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/news/>, homelessness
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/homelessness/>, San Francisco
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/san-francisco/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/persistence-community-support-help-san-francisco-neighborhood-fight-homelessness/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/persistence-community-support-help-san-francisco-neighborhood-fight-homelessness/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/persistence-community-support-help-san-francisco-neighborhood-fight-homelessness/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/persistence-community-support-help-san-francisco-neighborhood-fight-homelessness/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/persistence-community-support-help-san-francisco-neighborhood-fight-homelessness/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/persistence-community-support-help-san-francisco-neighborhood-fight-homelessness/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

0 Comments
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/persistence-community-support-help-san-francisco-neighborhood-fight-homelessness/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related

New S.F. Chinatown Restaurants Bring Big Changes, Revive Traditions

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/02/05/new-s-f-chinatown-restaurants-bring-big-changes-revive-traditions>

'Dinner With Grace': Breaking Bread, and Barriers, With San Francisco
Hotel Dwellers

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2013/11/26/119331/dinner-with-grace>

Huge Police Presence Herds S.F. Homeless Protest Around Super Bowl City

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/02/03/huge-police-presence-herds-s-f-homeless-protest-around-super-bowl-city>

S.F. Supervisor Scott Wiener: Homeless Tent Camps 'Need to Go Away'

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/01/25/s-f-supervisor-scott-wiener-city-needs-fast-response-to-homeless-tent-camps>

As S.F.'s Homeless Crisis Grows, One Supervisor Wants to Expand New
Approach to Housing

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2015/12/01/as-s-f-s-homeless-crisis-grows-one-supervisor-wants-to-expand-new-approach-to-housing>

How a Turkey Farming Family Prepares for Thanksgiving

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2014/11/21/how-a-turkey-farming-family-prepares-for-thanksgiving/>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


    Author


      Stephanie Martin Taylor

Stephanie Martin is a radio news reporter and anchor, and an occasional
host of the /KQED Newsroom /television program. While she currently
focuses on housing and development issues, she has also reported on
topics ranging  from state and local politics to religion to arts and
culture.

Prior to joining KQED in 2005, Stephanie was an anchor and reporter for
WFDD, the NPR affiliate in Winston-Salem, NC. She also spent several
years as a television anchor, reporter and producer at various stations
around the country.

Stephanie has received numerous awards for her reporting, including two
National Headliner Awards, the Religion Newswriters Association's Best
Radio Reporting Award and honors from the Associated Press and the Radio
and Television Digital News Association. A series she produced from Iraq
in 2005 earned a Best of Radio Award from the Society of Professional
Journalists.

Stephanie received a graduate degree in Journalism from Columbia
University. As an undergraduate at Colgate University, she worked and
studied in Paris and Dijon, France, and spent a summer interning in the
White House Press Office.

Stephanie grew up in Dallas, TX, and now lives with her husband in San
Francisco.

View all posts by this author <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/smartin/>


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>


  Post navigation

Prev California To Spend Billions to Tackle Homelessness

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/california-to-spend-billions-to-tackle-homelessness/>
Next How Many Are Homeless? A Question With Many Answers

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/how-many-are-homeless-a-question-with-many-answers/>



  About The California Report

The California Report provides daily coverage of news and culture
throughout the state.

  * Contributors <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/contributors/>
  * Contact <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/contact-the-california-report/>
  * Tune In <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tune-in/>


  About KQED

  * About <http://www.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://www.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://www.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://www.kqed.org/about/help/index.jsp>


  Support for The California Report is Provided By

  * Eric and Wendy Schmidt <http://www.theschmidt.org/>
  * The California Endowment <http://www.calendow.org/>
  * California HealthCare Foundation <http://www.chcf.org/>
  * Rowbotham <http://www.rowbotham.com/>
  * The Westly Foundation <http://www.westly.org/> 



  * The James Irvine Foundation <http://www.irvine.org/>
  * Barracuda Networks <https://www.barracuda.com/>
  * Blach Construction <http://www.blach.com/>
  * Digital Foundry <http://www.digitalfoundry.com/>
  * Wharton San Francisco <http://sf.wharton.upenn.edu/> 

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

[blank image]
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.


  Get the facts!

Close

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil
:)
