Thanks for checking out our new design, please let us know if you have
feedback
<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdOO_VWVDQBuiuRD1Fv-bPphJqfu9woDLdbDGn6cElU_mwtNA/viewform>


<http://sfist.com/>

<mailto:tips@sfist.com>

<https://www.facebook.com/pages/SFist/114102351977699>

<http://twitter.com/sfist>

<http://instagram.com/sfist>

  *

    SFist is a website about San Francisco


    View

    Pretty | Blog
  * Arts & Entertainment

    <http://sfist.com/arts>
  * Food

    <http://sfist.com/food>
  * News

    <http://sfist.com/news>
  * Popular

    <http://sfist.com/popular.php>
  * Advertising

    <http://gothamistllc.com/>
  * Contact

    <http://sfist.com/contact.php>
  * Newsletter

    <http://eepurl.com/yIS4z>
  * RSS Feed

    <http://sfist.com/index.rdf>
  * Staff

    <http://sfist.com/staff.php>
  * Our Cities

    <#>
      o Chicago

        <http://www.chicagoist.com/>
      o London

        <http://www.londonist.com/>
      o Los Angeles

        <http://www.laist.com/>
      o New York City

        <http://www.gothamist.com/>
      o San Francisco

        <http://www.sfist.com/>
      o Shanghai

        <http://www.shanghaiist.com/>
      o Toronto

        <http://www.torontoist.com/>
      o Washington DC

        <http://www.dcist.com/>
  *

    <mailto:tips@sfist.com>

    <https://www.facebook.com/pages/SFist/114102351977699>

    <http://twitter.com/sfist>

    <http://instagram.com/sfist>


  Pets Of Homeless People Provide Huge Benefits, But Often Keep Them On
  The Streets

by Eve Batey <http://sfist.com/author/Eve%20Batey> in News
<http://sfist.com/news>	on Jun 30, 2016 2:50 pm

fido-homeless.jpg
/Photo:Troy Holden

/

"Rick is the only one who has ever really loved me," a man named Sam
told me as he sat on a sidewalk at the end of Judah Street in the Outer
Sunset. "The only one I've loved who hasn't ever hurt me," he said.

Rick, a three-year-old Chihuahua mix, sat in Sam's lap, drifting in and
out of sleep.

"I don't know what I'd do without him," Sam, a self-described "outdoor
sleeper" who declined to give his last name, said, as he rubbed Rick's
head. "I don't always take good care of myself, but I always take good
care of Rick."

Those sentiments — that animals can be our most loyal pals, and that
people often treat their pets better than they treat themselves — are
likely familiar to anyone who cares for an pet. (Think, for example,
about how many people procrastinate about going to the doctor, but rush
their cat to the vet at the slightest sneeze.) But all that is
intensified when we're talking about homeless people, as for many of
them their companion animals are the only bonds they have.

"What I’ve heard some of our homeless clients say is that this is the
only being they feel loved by and that they have a longstanding
relationship with," says Shade Paul, the San Francisco SPCA's Director
of Hospital Services. "Their pets are a source of trust and love, and
are often the only source of stability they have. It's a strong, strong
bond."

It's a topic that teacher, author, and sociologist Dr. Leslie Irvine
explores in great detail in her book, /My Dog Always Eats First:
Homeless People and Their Animals
<https://www.rienner.com/title/My_Dog_Always_Eats_First_Homeless_People_and_Their_Animals>/
(recommended reading for anyone who wants to learn more about the
issue). According to Irvine, who interviewed over 70 homeless people
across 40 cities, as well as social workers and veterinarians, the bond
between a homeless person and his or her pet is a two-way street.

"Dogs, of course, need food, medical care and shelter from the
elements," Irvine says. "But they don't need a house. What they need
most is human companionship, and they often get that more from homeless
people than from those who own houses."

Even Irvine admits that the first time she saw a homeless person with a
pet, her reaction was negative. According to The Intercept
<https://theintercept.com/2015/10/13/dogs-forge-a-bond-with-rios-homeless-that-is-life-saving/>:

    Irvine first tried to 'save' the canine by offering the homeless man
    money to buy her. When he angrily refused her money, she actually
    called Animal Control hoping they would 'rescue' the animal, only to
    be told that they were unable to act since she wasn’t being harmed.

    Only later, after she began studying the relationship, did she
    realize that dogs are often more important to homeless people than
    they are to domiciled people and thus they care for them better.

All the officials I spoke with, both with city agencies and local
non-profits, expressed that same belief. According to Beth
Rittenhouse-Dhesi, the Director of Community Services at San Francisco's
Community Clinic Consortium <http://www.sfccc.org/about-us/>, a
non-profit that seeks to increase access to quality community-based
primary health care, while there "are outliers" in the homeless
community who fulfill all our worst fears of neglect, abuse, or use of
animals merely as a panhandling tool, most homeless people "consider
their pets to be their family and their emotional support, and treat
them as such."

"I feel sad when i hear people who don’t know say the only reasons
homeless people have pets are the negative ones," Rittenhouse-Dhesi
says. "I have seen first-hand the positive impact pets have had on our
patients."

In Rittenhouse-Dhesi's case, the patients she's referring to are those
cared for through SFCCC's Street Outreach Services
<http://www.sfccc.org/street-outreach-services/> (SOS). That's the
mobile outreach portion of their Health Care for the Homeless program,
in which vans that provide healthcare services are regularly parked at
shelters like St. Anthony's, events like Project Homeless Connect, and
at homeless encampments and other places where unhoused people
congregate. Since 2001, SOS has also offered a program called Vet SOS
<http://www.sfccc.org/veterinary-street-outreach-services-vetsos>, which
provides free preventative and emergency veterinary care to homeless
people's companion animals.

When the program, which is entirely funded by donations of money, goods,
and services, began, it was one volunteer vet and one volunteer vet
technician. But as the program has grown, they're now up to four vets
and techs, as well as a monthly first-come/first-served clinic
<http://www.sfccc.org/vetsos-clinicschedule>. The need is so great that
"we could do more and still be busy," Rittenhouse-Dhesi says.

Not only are the monthly vet clinics a good way to ensure that pets
cared for by homeless people are in the best possible health, they are
also a "great tool to connect humans to care," Rittenhouse-Dhesi says.
Deena Lahn, SFCCC's Vice President for Policy and Advocacy agrees,
saying that many times, their (humancentric) street outreach teams will
be rebuffed by homeless people, saying they "don't want to talk to us,
don't trust us, and don't need us." But these same people will seek care
for their companion animals, and that's when a bridge can be built, as
once they build a relationship with their vet and see "that they aren't
being judged," they will open up to SOS volunteers about the health care
needs they, themselves are facing.

"The nonjudgmental aspect cannot be overemphasized," Lahn says. "These
are people who are judged every day... but they find a way to overcome
that fear of judgement to seek care for the animals in their lives in a
way they couldn't for themselves." But once that initial connection is
made via pet, homeless people will continue to seek SOS assistance for
their own health care, and though it's not SOS's mission to "get people
into shelters," Lahn says, SOS has numerous accounts (some of which
appear on their website <http://www.sfccc.org/vetsos-meetourclients>) of
homeless clients for whom vet care was the bridge to health care,
supportive housing, and, eventually, a life of self-sufficiency.

But even though a pet can be a route and inspiration to a life off the
streets, it can also be an impediment. What does a homeless person do
with their pets while they, say, go apply for food stamps, or Medi-Cal,
or other social services? That, Rittenhouse-Dhesi admits, is an "unmet
need" in San Francisco, as many buildings prohibit the admittance of
non-service animals.

Ariana Luchsinger, a Behavior & Training Supervisor at San Francisco
Animal Care & Control, agrees, saying that for many homeless people,
their only option is to leave their pet with a friend, who may or may
not be trustworthy.

"Many of these animals, while well-socialized on the street, have
separation anxiety and run away" from their temporary minders, often
homeless people themselves. "Other people have their dogs stolen...
that's something we see all the time."

Another challenge, familiar to anyone housed or unhoused in the Bay
Area, is the difficulty to find even temporary housing when you have
pets. "It's incredibly difficult even for the well-resourced!"
Luchsinger says. Other then San Francisco's Homeless Navigation Centers,
for which there is a lengthy waiting list, most shelters refuse to
accept animals, or do so only on a seemingly arbitrary "case-by-case
basis." But even if a pet guardian gets a slot in a Nav Center, they're
still kind of stuck, as Nav Center staffers are "busting their butts
trying to find housing for their clients, but for people with pets
there's often nowhere to go."

Rittenhouse-Dhesi also noted that "even supportive housing has a lot of
limitations," including, in most cases, a refusal to allow companion (as
opposed to service) animals. So, instead, Lahn says, people will end up
"choosing a life with their pet over a most traditional life," and back
on the street they go.

While pet guardians are in the Nav Centers, Luchsinger says, the ACC
works to support them by providing residents with monthly dog training
clinics (as well as support for non-dog pets). "Quite frequently,"
Luchsinger says, when we see what looks like a homeless person abusing a
dog, by frantically or abruptly pulling on its leash, "it's not
mistreatment, it's a gap in education." So the ACC comes in and provides
humane leashes and collars, swapping them out for the makeshift ropes,
belts, and collars some animals might have arrived in.

In addition, the ACC helps provide more information on services
available for homeless pet guardians, like the SF SPCA's free spay and
neutering programs for homeless clients, and the low or no cost services
the SPCA provides.

Some of the SPCA's vet care is provided through Vet SOS, and other
services are provided on the SPCA's Mission campus, Paul says, with
their recently-acquired Pacific Heights campus getting in on things once
"our computer systems are integrated." The SPCA has a $25,000/annual
grant to provide free emergency care for homeless people's animals, and
also does free lab work for SOS, as well as provides them with some
medical supplies and medicine.

As with everyone with whom I spoke, Paul was adamant that animals are an
important part of many homeless people's lives, and something that
deserves approbation, not dismissal.

"The SPCA seeks to support the bond between people and animals in all
the work we do," Paul said. "We don’t want to see homeless people's
animals in a shelter, we want to keep them with their guardians."

Even with all three of these — as well as the many other agencies
supporting homeless people in SF — that can't always happen. As much as
people love their animals, owner surrenders due to eviction are
skyrocketing at the ACC, Luchsinger says, and homeless people who have
no option but to leave the streets sometimes give up their animals too,
as it is "incredibly hard to find a shelter that will house your pet."

But if they don't urgently need to leave the streets, Luchsinger says,
"they'll stay in a tent. That's their only option."

So we see a conundrum, here. As Rittenhouse-Dhesi says, "I have seen
firsthand the positive impact pets have had on our patients... addicts
who have entered treatment, gotten clean, and have since moved indoors,
crediting it all to their relationship with a dog." And yet, the dog is
also what will keep them from moving indoors.

So, if we're talking about solutions, as those of us writing during the
week of the SF Homeless Project
<http://sfist.com/tags/sfhomelessproject> are encouraged to, one obvious
— albeit enormously difficult — solution would be for organizations
seeking to house (temporarily or permanently) homeless people to make it
easier for them to being their pets with them as they move indoors.

A second way to help would be for an agency or non-profit to fill the
"unmet need" of a pet-sitting service for homeless people. So far, the
only one is provided by the SF SPCA during bimonthly Project Homeless
Connect events. But one in a central location or near services would,
Luchsinger says "be awesome...hard, but awesome," and would enable
people to leave their animals in a safe place as they seek ways to
better their situations or leave the streets.

And finally, of course, there's the role pets can play in helping
formerly homeless people in that delicate and pivotal time between the
streets and self-sufficiency, when they're in supportive housing. You
might recall Wonderful Opportunities for Occupants and Fidos (WOOF), the
collaboration between the ACC and City Hall that made headlines
<http://www.sfgate.com/bayarea/article/SF-tries-to-curb-panhandling-with-puppies-3631490.php>
in 2012, when pre-screened residents of supportive housing took charge
of San Francisco shelter dogs.

Though the program "was a success," ACC spokesperson Deb Campbell says,
it ended after only four months due to lack of funding.

According to a Chron report
<http://www.sfgate.com/bayarea/article/SF-tries-to-curb-panhandling-with-puppies-3631490.php>
from 2012, the program was initially funded by a $10,000 grant from
Vanessa Getty, with the expectation that then-homeless czar Bevan Dufty
would "seek more philanthropic donations." But those donations, it
appears, never came, and the program ended only after four or five
adoptions. When contacted by SFist, Dufty explained that negative
attention from activist group People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals
<http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/headlines/2012/07/peta-fights-program-pairing-panhandlers-with-dogs/>
had a "chilling effect" on future donations. "It's just so unfortunate,"
Dufty says, "that PETA allowed hatred of poor people to kill off what
could have been such an important program."

"We weren't well-placed for it," Luchsinger says, and there wasn't
enough staff or resources to support what was a "very expensive" program
that included training for both pet and guardian. But a program like
that, where people on the bubble have a chance to improve their lives
through a bond with an animal could be a huge tool in keeping people off
the streets.

"The people that I interact with say that their pets are a huge, huge
piece of why they don't completely give up" Luchsinger says.

"So many of these people," Rittenhouse-Dhesi says of homeless people,
"are so so socially isolated. With a relationship with an animal, some
of them experience love and companionship for the first time, and end up
providing care and companionship for animals who would otherwise end up
in shelter, or worse."

So the question for shelters and providers of supportive housing, I
guess, is what can they do to keep that bond intact? I know it wouldn't
be a simple small thing, to open their doors to pets, but it seems like
a concrete change that could substantially change or save lives.

holden_dog.jpg
/Photo: Troy Holden

/

/More than 70 Bay Area news organizations are participating in this
media project that launches in full June 29. Follow the SF Homeless
Project on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/sfhomelessproject> and
Twitter <https://twitter.com/bayareahomeless>./

*Previously:* Former Mayors Dianne Feinstein And Art Agnos Discuss Root
Causes Of Homelessness, Other Mayors' Failures
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/29/former_mayors_dianne_feinstein_and.php>

Contact the author <http://sfist.com/staff.php> of this article or email
tips@sfist.com <mailto:tips@sfist.com> with further questions, comments
or tips.

  * animal care and control <http://sfist.com/tags/animalcareandcontrol>
  * animals <http://sfist.com/tags/animals>
  * homelessness <http://sfist.com/tags/homelessness>
  * pets <http://sfist.com/tags/pets>
  * SF ACC <http://sfist.com/tags/SFACC>
  * sf homeless project <http://sfist.com/tags/sfhomelessproject>
  * SF SOS <http://sfist.com/tags/SFSOS>
  * SF SPCA <http://sfist.com/tags/SFSPCA>
  * VET SOS <http://sfist.com/tags/VETSOS>
  *


    Other Interesting Stories

  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
by Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Sponsored Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
.
Fortune Builders
<http://www.fortunebuildersinfo.com/Direct/?did=ee3603b5-8d5f-e411-93f1-a0369f1303c6&contact0state=CA&Covid=44787286-8c82-4f6f-bd77-fb8caecf927b&MID=8368850&utm_SITEID={Site}>Free
Real Estate Event in San Francisco Dec. 7 - 10Fortune Builders
<http://www.fortunebuildersinfo.com/Direct/?did=ee3603b5-8d5f-e411-93f1-a0369f1303c6&contact0state=CA&Covid=44787286-8c82-4f6f-bd77-fb8caecf927b&MID=8368850&utm_SITEID={Site}>
Undo
The Business Journals with HSBC
<http://www.bizjournals.com/bizjournals/news/2016/11/08/looking-ahead-in-a-fast-changing-economic.html?ana=rss_hsbc216186-4_tabo&utm_distil=hsbc216186-4>Looking
ahead in a fast-changing economic environmentThe Business Journals with
HSBC
<http://www.bizjournals.com/bizjournals/news/2016/11/08/looking-ahead-in-a-fast-changing-economic.html?ana=rss_hsbc216186-4_tabo&utm_distil=hsbc216186-4>
Undo
Rates To Riches Referrals
<http://ratestoriches.com/rates/?h1=Compare-Todays-Featured-Savings-Accounts&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>Compare
Savings Accounts Rates and Earn More Interest Today. Rates so g…Rates To
Riches Referrals
<http://ratestoriches.com/rates/?h1=Compare-Todays-Featured-Savings-Accounts&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>
Undo
Mosaic Home Solar Loan
<http://homesolaradvisor.net/2015/04/03/mosaic-is-first-solar-company-to-get-it-right-2/?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>Invest
in Solar and slash your utility bills straight awayMosaic Home Solar
Loan
<http://homesolaradvisor.net/2015/04/03/mosaic-is-first-solar-company-to-get-it-right-2/?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>
Undo
Answers
<http://www.answers.com/browse/click.php?source=tb&param3=www.answers.com/article/31078489/homeless-man-builds-incredible-secret-home-under-train-station&param4=tb-us-de-enter&param1=gothamist-sfist&param2=He+Lives+Under+A+Train+Station%2C+But+Wait+Till+You+See+His+Home&param5=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F84f6e6a7d2759735ff5075b3dc169ea0.jpg>He
Lives Under A Train Station, But Wait Till You See His HomeAnswers
<http://www.answers.com/browse/click.php?source=tb&param3=www.answers.com/article/31078489/homeless-man-builds-incredible-secret-home-under-train-station&param4=tb-us-de-enter&param1=gothamist-sfist&param2=He+Lives+Under+A+Train+Station%2C+But+Wait+Till+You+See+His+Home&param5=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F84f6e6a7d2759735ff5075b3dc169ea0.jpg>
Undo
Detonate
<http://adrzr.com/551a?utm_source=8b4&utm_campaign=8b4_US_desktop_CelebTransformation_12_551a_20160819_mm_3468&utm_term=gothamist-sfist>Susan
Boyle is So Skinny Now and Looks GorgeousDetonate
<http://adrzr.com/551a?utm_source=8b4&utm_campaign=8b4_US_desktop_CelebTransformation_12_551a_20160819_mm_3468&utm_term=gothamist-sfist>
Undo
by Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>
Sponsored Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>
Additional Stories
<http://sfist.com/2016/03/09/ask_a_san_francisco_native_whats_yo.php>Ask
A San Francisco Native: What's Your Favorite Place To Get A Burrito?:
SFist <http://sfist.com/2016/03/09/ask_a_san_francisco_native_whats_yo.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/15/valencia_street_cyclists_punch_and.php>Valencia
Street Cyclists Punch And Rob Woman Thursday: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/15/valencia_street_cyclists_punch_and.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/13/gang_jumps_and_beats_chinatown_pede.php>Gang Jumps
And Beats Chinatown Pedestrian: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/13/gang_jumps_and_beats_chinatown_pede.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/03/wiener_vs_kim_already_most_expensiv.php>Wiener
vs. Kim Already Most Expensive District 11 State Senate Race Ever: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/03/wiener_vs_kim_already_most_expensiv.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/01/13/the_best_hook-up_bars_in_sf.php>The Best
Hook-Up Bars In SF: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/01/13/the_best_hook-up_bars_in_sf.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2015/12/03/the_best_cheap_eats_in_sf_for_10_or.php>The
22 Best Cheap Eats In SF For $10 Or Less (That Aren't Burgers, Pizza,
Tacos, Or Burritos): SFist
<http://sfist.com/2015/12/03/the_best_cheap_eats_in_sf_for_10_or.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/07/29/best_classic_san_francisco_food.php>The 18
Must-Have Classic San Francisco Dishes: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/07/29/best_classic_san_francisco_food.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/02/18/best_buffets_all_you_can_eat_san_fr.php>SF's 10
Best All-You-Can-Eat Deals: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/02/18/best_buffets_all_you_can_eat_san_fr.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/02/26/apartment_sadness_share_a_soma_two-.php>Apartment
Sadness: Share A SoMa Two-Bedroom With Three Others, Wall Partitions:
SFist <http://sfist.com/2016/02/26/apartment_sadness_share_a_soma_two-.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/07/06/heres_what_employees_of_google_appl.php>Here's
What Facebook, Google, And Apple Employees Really Think About
Tech-Shuttle 'Hubs'…
<http://sfist.com/2016/07/06/heres_what_employees_of_google_appl.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/14/thieves_pilfering_mail_with_usps_ma.php>Thieves
Pilfering Mail With USPS Master Key Still On The Loose: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/14/thieves_pilfering_mail_with_usps_ma.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/05/20/jumbo_747_definitely_going_to_burni.php>Jumbo
747 Definitely Going to Burning Man This Year : SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/05/20/jumbo_747_definitely_going_to_burni.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/30/apartment_sadness_2400_for_crap_stu.php>Apartment
Sadness: $2400 For Crap House In El Cerrito: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/30/apartment_sadness_2400_for_crap_stu.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/28/best_pasta_san_francisco.php>The 13 Most
Delicious Pasta Spots In San Francisco: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/28/best_pasta_san_francisco.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/04/13/the_halal_guys_sf_ofarrell_review.php>The
Halal Guys In SF: An Admittedly Early Review: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/04/13/the_halal_guys_sf_ofarrell_review.php>
Undo
Sponsored Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>
Additional Stories
<http://sfist.com/2016/03/09/ask_a_san_francisco_native_whats_yo.php>Ask
A San Francisco Native: What's Your Favorite Place To Get A Burrito?:
SFist <http://sfist.com/2016/03/09/ask_a_san_francisco_native_whats_yo.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/15/valencia_street_cyclists_punch_and.php>Valencia
Street Cyclists Punch And Rob Woman Thursday: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/15/valencia_street_cyclists_punch_and.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/13/gang_jumps_and_beats_chinatown_pede.php>Gang Jumps
And Beats Chinatown Pedestrian: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/13/gang_jumps_and_beats_chinatown_pede.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/03/wiener_vs_kim_already_most_expensiv.php>Wiener
vs. Kim Already Most Expensive District 11 State Senate Race Ever: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/03/wiener_vs_kim_already_most_expensiv.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/01/13/the_best_hook-up_bars_in_sf.php>The Best
Hook-Up Bars In SF: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/01/13/the_best_hook-up_bars_in_sf.php>
Undo
by Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>
  © 2003-2016 Gothamist LLC <http://gothamistllc.com/>. All rights
reserved. Terms of Use & Privacy Policy
<http://www.gothamistllc.com/mediakit/privacy_legal.php>.
Close this video ad
Never show video ads
Cancel Send
