  * English

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/>
  * Spanish

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/es/>

El Tecolote

<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/>
//

  * Home

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/>
  * News

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/>
      o Education

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/education/>
      o Immigration

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/immigration-news/>
      o Housing

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/housing-news/>
      o Health

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/news/health-news/>
  * Arts & Culture

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/>
      o Film and Literary Reviews

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/film-and-literary-reviews/>
      o People in the Arts

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/people-in-the-arts/>
      o Event Coverage

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/arts_culture/event-coverage/>
  * Features

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/features/>
  * Community

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/community-2/>
  * Latin America

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/latin_america/>
  * Commentary

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/>
      o Immigration 101

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/immigration-101/>
      o Veterans’ Voices

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/veterans-voices-commentary/>
      o Letters

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/letters/>
      o Opinion

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/category/commentary/opinion-en/>
  * About

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/about-2/>
      o Archive

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/print-issue-archive/>
      o Volunteer

        <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/about-2/volunteer/>
      o Acción Latina

        <http://accionlatina.org/>
  * Advertise

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/advertise-2/>
  * Contact

    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/contact/>


  Pilot program for homeless sees some success

// June 29, 2016 // Adrian Pintor
Share this: Facebook <#> Twitter <#> Google+ <#> Pinterest <#> Email to
a Friend <#>
The Gubbio Project’s orange mats line the floor at St. John the
Evangelist Episcopal Church. Friday June 27, 2016. Photo Jessica WebbThe
Gubbio Project’s orange mats line the floor at St. John the Evangelist
Episcopal Church. Friday June 27, 2016. Photo Jessica Webb

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Gubbio-Project_15web.jpg>
Michael Mulling, originally from Texas and pictured here on June 24, has
been coming to the Gubbio Project since it began at St. John the
Evangelist Episcopal Church in December 2015. Photo Jessica WebbMichael
Mulling, originally from Texas and pictured here on June 24, has been
coming to the Gubbio Project since it began at St. John the Evangelist
Episcopal Church in December 2015. Photo Jessica Webb

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Gubbio-Project_01web.jpg>
Charles Pitts has lived in San Francisco for 15 years. When asked on
Friday June 24, 2016, what he felt people should know about the city’s
homeless, he stated that “ultimately we are the victims. We are children
that have been abused and we are just adults now.” Photo Jessica
WebbCharles Pitts has lived in San Francisco for 15 years. When asked on
Friday June 24, 2016, what he felt people should know about the city’s
homeless, he stated that “ultimately we are the victims. We are children
that have been abused and we are just adults now.” Photo Jessica Webb

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Gubbio-Project_02web.jpg>
Kurt Jones, in San Francisco for 3 years, has been coming to the Gubbio
Project for a week. Friday June 24, 2016. Photo Jessica WebbKurt Jones,
in San Francisco for 3 years, has been coming to the Gubbio Project for
a week. Friday June 24, 2016. Photo Jessica Webb

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Gubbio-Project_03web.jpg>
Charles Pitts has lived in San Francisco for 15 years. When asked on
Friday June 24, 2016, what he felt people should know about the city’s
homeless, he stated that “ultimately we are the victims. We are children
that have been abused and we are just adults now.” Photo Jessica
WebbCharles Pitts has lived in San Francisco for 15 years. When asked on
Friday June 24, 2016, what he felt people should know about the city’s
homeless, he stated that “ultimately we are the victims. We are children
that have been abused and we are just adults now.” Photo Jessica Webb

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Gubbio-Project_04web.jpg>
St. John the Evangelist Episcopal Church on Friday, June 24, 2016. Photo
Jessica WebbSt. John the Evangelist Episcopal Church on Friday, June 24,
2016. Photo Jessica Webb

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Gubbio-Project_05web_box-1.jpg>
Michael has been in San Francisco since 2000, attending the Gubbio
project since it began. Friday June 24, 2016. Photo Jessica WebbMichael
has been in San Francisco since 2000, attending the Gubbio project since
it began. Friday June 24, 2016. Photo Jessica Webb

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Gubbio-Project_06web.jpg>
Richard Bandoli, originally from Illinois, arrived in San Francisco in
1978 and has been attending the Gubbio Project for a couple of months.
Friday June 24, 2016. Photo Jessica WebbRichard Bandoli, originally from
Illinois, arrived in San Francisco in 1978 and has been attending the
Gubbio Project for a couple of months. Friday June 24, 2016. Photo
Jessica Webb

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Gubbio-Project_07web.jpg>
Ariana Strangelove sits outside St. John the Evangelist Episcopal Church
after breakfast was served by the Gubbio Project. Friday June 24, 2016.
Photo Jessica WebbAriana Strangelove sits outside St. John the
Evangelist Episcopal Church after breakfast was served by the Gubbio
Project. Friday June 24, 2016. Photo Jessica Webb

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Gubbio-Project_08web.jpg>
The Gubbio Project’s orange mats line the floor at St. John the
Evangelist Episcopal Church. Friday June 24, 2016. Photo Jessica WebbThe
Gubbio Project’s orange mats line the floor at St. John the Evangelist
Episcopal Church. Friday June 24, 2016. Photo Jessica Webb

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Gubbio-Project_09web-1.jpg>
The Gubbio Project’s orange mats line the floor at St. John the
Evangelist Episcopal Church. Friday June 24, 2016. Photo Jessica WebbThe
Gubbio Project’s orange mats line the floor at St. John the Evangelist
Episcopal Church. Friday June 24, 2016. Photo Jessica Webb

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Gubbio-Project_10web.jpg>
St. John the Evangelist Episcopal Church. Friday June 24, 2016. Photo
Jessica WebbSt. John the Evangelist Episcopal Church. Friday June 24,
2016. Photo Jessica Webb

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Gubbio-Project_11web.jpg>
Kurt Jones displays signs outside the Gubbio Project held at St. John
the Evangelist Episcopal Church on Friday, June 24, 2016. Photo Jessica
WebbKurt Jones displays signs outside the Gubbio Project held at St.
John the Evangelist Episcopal Church on Friday, June 24, 2016. Photo
Jessica Webb

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Gubbio-Project_12web.jpg>
Jim Farrell, a Gubbio Project volunteer, prepares breakfast for homeless
patrons. He has been volunteering with the organization for 2 months.
Monday, June 27, 2016 Photo Jessica WebbJim Farrell, a Gubbio Project
volunteer, prepares breakfast for homeless patrons. He has been
volunteering with the organization for 2 months. Monday, June 27, 2016
Photo Jessica Webb

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Gubbio-Project_13web.jpg>
Trevor Watson, a Gubbio Project volunteer, prepares breakfast for the
homeless patrons Monday, June 27, 2016. He volunteers with the
organization every morning. Photo Jessica WebbTrevor Watson, a Gubbio
Project volunteer, prepares breakfast for the homeless patrons Monday,
June 27, 2016. He volunteers with the organization every morning. Photo
Jessica Webb

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Gubbio-Project_14web-1.jpg>
The Gubbio Project’s orange mats line the floor at St. John the
Evangelist Episcopal Church. Friday June 27, 2016. Photo Jessica WebbThe
Gubbio Project’s orange mats line the floor at St. John the Evangelist
Episcopal Church. Friday June 27, 2016. Photo Jessica Webb

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Gubbio-Project_15web.jpg>
Michael Mulling, originally from Texas and pictured here on June 24, has
been coming to the Gubbio Project since it began at St. John the
Evangelist Episcopal Church in December 2015. Photo Jessica WebbMichael
Mulling, originally from Texas and pictured here on June 24, has been
coming to the Gubbio Project since it began at St. John the Evangelist
Episcopal Church in December 2015. Photo Jessica Webb

<http://eltecolote.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Gubbio-Project_01web.jpg>

The white perpendicular columns line both sides of St. John the
Evangelist Episcopal Church, holding up the roof to what has become a
sanctuary for San Francisco’s homeless citizens.

Beneath the resplendent stain-glass windows, orange mats line the wood
floor of the Mission District church every weekday morning, providing a
safe sleeping space for the city’s homeless, whose encampments have been
routinely targeted by city officials, agencies and police.

And although homeless encampments continue throughout various areas of
the Mission—most notably on Division Street—there are organizations that
have devoted their time to finding alternative options for the homeless
community in San Francisco.

One of these is the Gubbio Project, a nonprofit organization that
provides temporary housing services to the homeless in the Tenderloin
and the Mission. Gubbio partnered up with St. Boniface Church in the
Tenderloin and more recently St. John’s, in a six-month pilot program.

“It’s all going great,” said Father Richard Smith—the vicar at St.
John’s. “I can’t imagine it being better. It has truly been a marriage
made in heaven.”

The pilot program was slated to end on June 30, but Gubbio and the
church plan to continue their partnership, Smith said. Their objective
isn’t to help solve the housing crisis in San Francisco, but provide
options for the homeless community.

Last April, Mayor Ed Lee took action, announcing a citywide crackdown on
all homeless encampments in San Francisco.

On April 7, SFPD Sgt. Nate Steger and officer Michael Mellone fatally
shot Luis Gongora Pat, a homeless 45-year-old Mexican immigrant on
Shotwell Street. Contrary to some eyewitness statements, police allege
that Gongora charged at the officers while holding a knife. After the
shooting, Lee echoed his concern for public safety.

“It’s not just that people do not feel safe around the camps — they
aren’t safe,” Lee told the San Francisco Chronicle’sMatier and Ross
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/matier-ross/article/SF-mayor-plans-crackdown-on-homeless-camps-7238291.php?t=32b6b47973&cmpid=twitter-premium>.
“When it comes to public safety, I’m not going to compromise with these
camps.”

Last February, with the anticipated increase in tourism due to Super
Bowl 50 festivities, Lee declared a public health emergency, and the
city began sweeping and disassembling the encampments.

Jose Eloi, an immigrant, who declined to state his last name, used to
camp on Division Street, but said he relocated between Shotwell and
Harrison streets, due to it being less crowded and surrounded by warehouses.

“I used to have a tent up on Division, but then the store owners would
always call the cops,” Jose said. “And I have to be careful because of
my legal status.”

St. Boniface’s guests are allowed to sleep on the church pews on
weekdays from 6 a.m. – 3 p.m. St. John’s congregation uses chairs in
place of pews, which are cleared away for the ComforPedic mattresses
that are used every weekday from 6 a.m. to noon.

“The guests have been surprised at how comfortable [the mattresses] have
been,” Smith said. “You can’t really tell until you lie down and try it
for yourself. Luckily, it’s very soft and warm and it holds the heat
very well, so they have really helped out.”

Smith said the pilot program couldn’t have come at a better time, given
the homeless encampment sweeps.

When the program first began, the church only had about 15 to 20 daily
guests. Over the course of the last six months, the numbers increased
due to rainy weather, according to Smith.

But with the project having a staff of only two full-time and four
part-time employees, Gubbio relies on volunteer support.

“Father Richard was awesome,” said Jose Lopez, who at the time was the
volunteer coordinator for Gubbio Project. “If there were a handful of
people like him the world would be a better place. We couldn’t have got
more support from the church and the staff.”

Gubbio also provides its guests breakfast, which includes a meal of
scrambled eggs and hot beverages, such as coffee and tea.

Mission eateries and support groups have also contributed by donating
items, such as baked goods and hygiene products, Smith said.

“The Gubbio Project has been a tremendous gift to my parish and we are
very honored to be partnering up with them,” Smith said. “It’s come at a
very critical time in San Francisco and I’m glad we have had the
privilege to help the community in this small way.”

Division Street <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/division-street/>
Ed Lee <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/ed-lee-en/> Father Richard
Smith <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/father-richard-smith/>
Gubbio Project <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/gubbio-project/>
homeless encampment
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/homeless-encampment/> Jose Eloi
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/jose-eloi/> José López
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/jose-lopez-en/> Luis Gongora Pat
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/luis-gongora-pat/> Michael Mellone
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/michael-mellone/> Nate Steger
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/nate-steger/> San Francisco’s
homeless <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/san-franciscos-homeless/>
SF Homeless Project
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/sf-homeless-project/> SFPD
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/sfpd-en/> Shotwell Street
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/shotwell-street/> St. John the
Evangelist Episcopal Church
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/st-john-the-evangelist-episcopal-church/>
Super Bowl 50 <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/tag/super-bowl-50/>

Previous Post


      Huckleberry Youth Programs: A safe space for at-risk youth
      <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/features/huckleberry-youth-programs-a-safe-space-for-at-risk-youth/>

Next Post


      El Tecolote joins SF Homeless Project
      <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/features/el-tecolote-joins-sf-homeless-project/>

Latest Print Issue
Powered by <https://issuu.com/explore>
Publish for Free <https://issuu.com/publishers?entryPoint=embed>
El Tecolote on Youtube
Recent Posts
cf6_kkk-bold-eagle_01_web
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/election-cartoons/>	


    Election Cartoons
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/election-cartoons/>

// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/election-cartoons/#respond>
A detention center in Arizona. Photo: Steve Pavey
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/opinion-en/there-are-no-borders-that-can-contain-the-cry-of-justice/>



    There are no borders that can contain the cry of...
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/opinion-en/there-are-no-borders-that-can-contain-the-cry-of-justice/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/opinion-en/there-are-no-borders-that-can-contain-the-cry-of-justice/#respond>

A stencil disparaging tech workers on a 24th Street sidewalk. Photo:
Mabel Jiménez
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/letters/letter-to-the-editor-techie-hate/>



    Letter to the editor: Techie hate
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/letters/letter-to-the-editor-techie-hate/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/commentary/letters/letter-to-the-editor-techie-hate/#respond>

Photo: Ekevara Kitpowsong
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/arts_culture/my-people-love-is-stronger-than-hate/>



    My people: Love is stronger than hate
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/arts_culture/my-people-love-is-stronger-than-hate/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/arts_culture/my-people-love-is-stronger-than-hate/#respond>

Prop 58 passed, allowing bilingual education in California schools. El
Tecolote Archives/Photo: Marina Forte
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/news/ballot-measure-results-show-ca-is-well-left-of-nation/>



    Ballot measure results show CA is well left of...
    <http://eltecolote.org/content/en/news/ballot-measure-results-show-ca-is-well-left-of-nation/>


// 0
<http://eltecolote.org/content/en/news/ballot-measure-results-show-ca-is-well-left-of-nation/#respond>

Voter Guide


      About

El Tecolote newspaper began as a project in a La Raza Studies class at
San Francisco State University. Prof. Juan Gonzales created the class as
a way to channel more Latinos into journalism. In the 1970s, Latinos and
other people of color were virtually invisible in the major newsrooms.

Today El Tecolote continues to provide original local news, portraying
the diverse spectrum of Latino life.


      //Twitter

  * //RT @AccionLatinaSF <http://twitter.com/AccionLatinaSF>: Our Juan
    R. Fuentes Gallery turns 1 next month and to celebrate/fundraise we
    are hosting a special art auction with som…
    November 29th, 2016
  * //Encuentro del Canto Popular 30th Anniversary! • Dec. 11 • 7pm
    #encuentro <http://twitter.com/search?q=encuentro> @AccionLatinaSF
    <http://twitter.com/AccionLatinaSF> https://t.co/QWugKbgTKM	
    November 23rd, 2016

Copyright (c) 2016. All rights reserved.
Published by Acción Latina <http://www.accionlatina.org/>	

<#>
