Valencia Cyclery Banner <javascript:void(0)>
MissionLocal <http://missionlocal.org/>


MissionLocal

Sections

  * Español <http://missionlocal.org/category/en-espanol/>
  * News <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/>
      o Mission Fire <http://missionlocal.org/mission-fire-r/>
      o Technology
        <http://missionlocal.org/category/money/technology-money/>
      o Business <http://missionlocal.org/category/money/>
      o Culture <http://missionlocal.org/category/the-arts/>
          + Food <http://missionlocal.org/category/food-topics/>
          + SROs: Rooms out of View
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/sro-topics/>
          + Dolores Park
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/dolores-park-topics/>
      o Transit <https://missionlocal.org/category/topics/transportation/>
          + BART <http://missionlocal.org/category/bart/>
          + Bikes <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/bikes-topics/>
      o Education <http://missionlocal.org/category/hall-pass/>
          + Elementary Schools
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/hall-pass/elementary-schools-2/>
          + Middle Schools
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/hall-pass/middle-schools/>
          + High School
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/hall-pass/high-school-hall-pass/>
      o Stop! Ask. <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/stop-ask/>
      o Street Science
        <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/street-science/>
      o Housing <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/housing-topics/>
          + 24th Street <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/24th/>
          + Mission Street
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/mission-street-topics/>
          + Valencia Street
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/valencia-street-topics/>
  * Trouble <http://missionlocal.org/category/trouble/>
  * Restaurant Reviews <http://missionlocal.org/restaurant-reviews/>
  * Housing <http://missionlocal.org/housingwatch/>
  * Guide <http://missionlocal.org/newcomers/>
      o The Essential Guide <http://missionlocal.org/newcomers/>
      o Stories on Local History
        <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/mission-history-topics/>
  * Events <https://missionlocal.org/mission-events/>
  * About <http://missionlocal.org/about/>
      o Shop <http://missionlocal.org/shop/>
  * Memberships <https://missionlocal.org/ml-membership/>
      o For Readers <http://missionlocal.org/ml-membership/>
      o For Business <http://missionlocal.org/ml-business-membership/>
      o We’ve Joined! Residents
        <http://missionlocal.org/contributing-members-page/>
      o We’ve Joined! Businesses <http://missionlocal.org/businessmembers/>
      o FAQs
        <https://missionlocal.org/2014/10/faqs-mission-locals-membership-drive/>
  * Advertise <http://missionlocal.org/advertise/>


  Property of San Francisco Homeless Routinely Disappeared by City

The Department of Public Works storage facility is located at 2323 Cesar
Chavez St. Photo by Lola M. Chavez

The Department of Public Works storage facility is located at 2323 Cesar
Chavez St. Photo by Lola M. Chavez

By Laura Waxmann <http://missionlocal.org/author/laurawaxmann/>Posted
June 29, 2016 7:00 am
Facebook <http://missionlocal.org/#facebook>Twitter
<http://missionlocal.org/#twitter>Share
<https://www.addtoany.com/share#url=http%3A%2F%2Fmissionlocal.org%2F2016%2F06%2Fproperty-of-san-francisco-homeless-routinely-disappeared-by-city%2F&title=Property%20of%20San%20Francisco%20Homeless%20Routinely%20Disappeared%20by%20City>

Despite a large number of well-publicized sweeps and routine cleanups of
homeless encampments throughout the city, records on file with the
Department of Public Works show that city cleaning crews only picked up
and preserved the personal belongings of 23 homeless people over a
six-month period.  

Since February, two major homeless settlements underneath the Division
Street
<http://missionlocal.org/2016/03/city-clears-homeless-encampment-on-division-street/>and
the Cesar Chavez Street
<http://www.sfgate.com/bayarea/article/San-Francisco-homeless-camp-swept-from-Cesar-7445715.php>freeway
underpasses have been ordered dismantled by the city. The sweeps placed
some 100 homeless people in shelters, while ushering dozens of others to
other areas.

Public Works and other agencies remove campers’ property that they are
unable to move themselves or take to the shelters.  Under the city’s
“bag and tag” program
<http://sf311.org/dept-public-works-bses-30012-homeless-property>,
personal property deemed “abandoned” is supposed to be logged and then
stored for up to 90 days at a storage yard at 2323 Cesar Chavez St.

Despite the widespread sweeps, public records of items taken from
homeless encampments and stored by Public Works between January and
mid-June produced only 23 files of confiscated items.

Mission Pie In Story <javascript:void(0)>

“Since those sweeps, they have been doing cleanups every day, so
[23 records] is nothing,” said Kelly Cutler, of the Coalition on
Homelessness. “We knew the number of [items] would be low, but the
number we got is actually really, really low.”

It is unclear what happened to the items owned by the hundreds of
homeless people who have been cleared from encampments during that same
period, but Rachel Gordon, the spokesperson for Public Works, said that
some 78 abandoned items were reported by Public Works’ radio room, which
tracks 311 calls. However, these items seem to not have been filed with
the storage yard’s log.

City wide, routine cleanups of encampments are conducted by Public Works
“around the clock,” said Gordon.

“We try to do [cleanups] compassionately,” she said. “It’s difficult for
[the homeless] to keep track of their possessions, not necessarily
because our crews are taking them and throwing them out or bagging and
tagging them, but because these people are transient.”

Gordon defended Public Works’ process in dealing with homeless property
as “good.”

“People can come [to the storage facility] five days per week during the
daytime hours and get their belongings if they are here,” she said.

The problem is that such items are rarely there.

Only four of the 23 files logged over six months were complete with
forms that detailed the property owner’s full name, a description of the
items, the date on which they were seized, and the location from where
they were picked up. The other files came in the form of green tags that
at best were marked with a name and date, but lacked a description and
location of what property was picked up where.

Only one of these tags indicated that a homeless woman retrieved her
belongings from the yard.

“It’s been practice for past few years that so many belongings are
thrown out or destroyed, that the homeless have reason to be hopeless,”
said  Elisa Della Piana, legal director for the Lawyers’ Committee for
Civil Rights.

In early June, Della Piana’s organization and other civil rights groups
called for a moratorium on illegal homeless property seizures
<http://www.lccr.com/wp-content/uploads/Final-Signed-Demand-Letter.pdf>and
demanded that the city adopt “corrective measures” that comply with the
law.

*Attempts to Reclaim Property Lead Nowhere*

In the year that he’s been homeless, Alexander Richardson has come to
terms with the fact that many of the rights he once enjoyed —like
sitting on the sidewalk, or sleeping without being rousted — are no
longer a given.

In recent months, he’s learned the hard way that being homeless also
means losing claims to what little property he has.

Richardson counts two shopping carts, a keyboard, four bicycles,
personal documents, some clothing and a sleeping bag among the items
that he lost in two city-ordered sweeps of his encampment. The sweeps
happened less than a month apart.

“These are things that I need to live out here,” said the 50-year-old
San Francisco native.  Richardson said he sells collected items at a
local flea market for cash.

But since Department of Public Works cleaning crews descended on his
encampment at 16th and Folsom streets in what he believes was a “push to
clear the streets for Carnaval” last month, Richardson has been at a loss.

“To anybody looking at it from the outside, maybe it’s just junk. But
some of those items took me over six months to collect,” he said. That
hustle is “what’s helped me to be able to eat every day.”

Alexander Richardson. Photo by Lola M. Chavez

Alexander Richardson. Photo by Lola M. Chavez

California law dictates that property confiscated from homeless people
by cities must be accompanied with
<http://www.lccr.com/wp-content/uploads/Final-Signed-Demand-Letter.pdf> an
adequate “pre-and-post seizure” process that includes providing homeless
residents with ample warning of impending cleanups and an opportunity to
reclaim their belongings.

Advocates say the city frequently violates its own policy —as well as
state law —with routine encampment cleanups
<http://missionlocal.org/2016/03/sweeps-move-sf-mission-homeless-block-to-block/>during
which homeless people’s property is seized and destroyed without regard.
The public records request and interviews with homeless people seems to
affirm that view.

This process leaves the homeless even more vulnerable by depriving them
of items that are “critical to their health and well-being,” such as
tents used for shelter, according to homeless rights advocates.

“What’s happening right now is illegal and it’s not working,” said Della
Piana.

*Flawed Record Keeping*

John Reilly, a Public Works supervisor who manages the storage yard used
by Public Works, said that tracking personal property is no easy task,
especially when camp residents are not present at the time of a sweep.

“Medication is the first thing that we look for because their name is
there … you have something solid to go on. We look for anything —legal
documents —to try to create a record,” said Reilly, adding that attempts
by homeless people to reclaim their belongings at the yard are rare.

Located in an industrial pocket of the city where the Mission meets the
Bayview, the Public Works storage yard is not directly accessible by
public transit.

Some of the homeless people who have taken on the trek said that they
“waited hours to be helped,” only to leave empty-handed.

“When I got to the storage facility, the worker there didn’t even ask
for my name —he just asked me to describe my stuff,” said a woman named
Tammy, who lives in an encampment near 17th and Folsom streets.

“He said, ‘I don’t recall seeing your things.’ But he probably wasn’t
even the one who took them in,” said Tammy. “Whoever did, didn’t take
proper notes. I lost everything I had because of it.”

Richardson, the 50-year-old homeless man, has made two unsuccessful
attempts to reclaim his property from the yard.

Although his property was indeed tagged and on file at the storage yard,
his tag was also marked with the words “damaged,” meaning they had to be
thrown out. Because many of his items were “brand new,” Richardson says
that the damage occurred at the storage yard.

“The first time I came to the storage yard, they told me that my things
got wet and were destroyed,” said Richardson. “But whose fault is that?
That’s still my property they took from me. I should be compensated for
that.”

The storage area where the seized items are kept is only partially
enclosed by a fence and a makeshift roof that offers little protection
from the elements.

“If its natural [damage], it’s not on us. We have a place where we store
[items] to our best ability and keep it from getting damaged,” said a
Public Works manager, who declined to give his name.

The manager handed Richardson a piece of paper with the phone contact of
a city attorney. “Call this number if you want to make a claim,” he told
him.

Richardson said he didn’t seriously consider taking this step until he
was forced to return to the storage yard a month later, following a
second sweep of his encampment that again left him with nothing.

The second time, Richardson waited an hour and a half before he was met
by the same manager who told him that his confiscated property had been
damaged in April.

This time, the manager told Richardson there were no records of his
property at all.

“This is the second time I’ve come here and I haven’t seen one stitch of
my belongings,” said Richardson. “They are not taking accountability in
a manner that allows an individual who is missing something to feel
vindicated. That’s why a lot of people in similar situations don’t even
try.”

Activists like Della Piana and Cutler are calling for a more “consistent
and coordinated” effort by Public Works and other city agencies
responsible for camp cleanups in addressing the property of San
Francisco’s homeless population.

Advocates have set a June 30 deadline for Mayor Ed Lee to respond to
their demands under threat of suit.

Gordon said that the department is looking into “the concerns that have
been raised” regarding Public Works’ “bag and tag” process.

“We don’t want to be the bad guys in this situation,” said Gordon.

/This story was published as part of a citywide initiative of some 70
news organizations to cover homelessness. You can see the full range of
coverage here <http://www.sfgate.com/homeless/>./


Share this:

  * Print
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/06/property-of-san-francisco-homeless-routinely-disappeared-by-city/#print>
  * Email
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/06/property-of-san-francisco-homeless-routinely-disappeared-by-city/?share=email&nb=1>
  * More <#>
*

  *
  *
  *
  * Share on Tumblr
    <https://www.tumblr.com/share/link/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fmissionlocal.org%2F2016%2F06%2Fproperty-of-san-francisco-homeless-routinely-disappeared-by-city%2F&name=Property%20of%20San%20Francisco%20Homeless%20Routinely%20Disappeared%20by%20City>
*


      /Related/

SF Wants Homeless to Relocate, Homeless Want Land
<http://missionlocal.org/2016/01/city-demands-that-homeless-relocate-homeless-demand-land/>January
30, 2016In "Featured"

Sweeps Move SF Mission Homeless Block to Block
<http://missionlocal.org/2016/03/sweeps-move-sf-mission-homeless-block-to-block/>March
23, 2016In "Featured"

Super Bowl Party in SF Mission Feeds Homeless
<http://missionlocal.org/2016/02/a-super-bowl-party-invites-homeless-people/>February
8, 2016In "Featured"

Facebook <http://missionlocal.org/#facebook>Twitter
<http://missionlocal.org/#twitter>Share
<https://www.addtoany.com/share#url=http%3A%2F%2Fmissionlocal.org%2F2016%2F06%2Fproperty-of-san-francisco-homeless-routinely-disappeared-by-city%2F&title=Property%20of%20San%20Francisco%20Homeless%20Routinely%20Disappeared%20by%20City>

Filed under: Featured <http://missionlocal.org/category/featured/>,
Front Page <http://missionlocal.org/category/front-page/>, Government &
Non Profits <http://missionlocal.org/category/local-government/>, Mobile
<http://missionlocal.org/category/mobile/>, Newsletter
<http://missionlocal.org/category/newsletter/>, SF Homeless Project
<http://missionlocal.org/category/sf-homeless-project/>, Special
Projects <http://missionlocal.org/category/special-projects/>, Today's
Mission <http://missionlocal.org/category/todays-mission/>, Topics
<http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/>

Tagged: camp <http://missionlocal.org/tag/camp/>, DPW
<http://missionlocal.org/tag/dpw/>, homeless
<http://missionlocal.org/tag/homeless/>, homelessness
<http://missionlocal.org/tag/homelessness/>


    You may also like:

#

  * File photo: Students participate in a workshop at Mission High
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/classroom-volunteers-sought-for-mission-schools/>Classroom
    Volunteers Sought for Mission Schools
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/classroom-volunteers-sought-for-mission-schools/>
  * Mi Pueblita near 24th. Photo by Lydia Chávez
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-margarita-party/>SNAP:
    Margarita Party? <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-margarita-party/>
  * Multikulti at 539 Valencia St. Photo by Joe Rivano Barros.
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/multikulti-on-valencia-street-to-close-after-16-years/>Multikulti
    on Valencia Street to Close After 16 Years
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/multikulti-on-valencia-street-to-close-after-16-years/>

Comments are closed.

Full name required to post. For full details, read our Policy
<http://missionlocal.org/terms#comments>	
Get Mission Local's Weekly Newsletter

Search for:

<http://www.facebook.com/missionlocalsf/> <http://twitter.com/mlnow/>
<http://www.vimeo.com/missionlocal/>
<http://instagram.com/missionlocal/> <http://missionlocal.org/feed/>
Snaps from the Community <https://missionlocal.org/missionlocalsnaps/>


    Today's Mission

  *


            Classroom Volunteers Sought for Mission Schools
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/classroom-volunteers-sought-for-mission-schools/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 5:25 pm

  *


            SNAP: Margarita Party?
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-margarita-party/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 2:58 pm

  *


            Multikulti on Valencia Street to Close After 16 Years
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/multikulti-on-valencia-street-to-close-after-16-years/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 2:53 pm

  *


            Schools Respond to Post-Election Fears With March in SF
            Mission
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/schools-respond-to-post-election-fears-with-march-in-sf-mission/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 2:13 pm

  *


            ML News Wire: Off to Salvador with a Bag of Books,...
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/ml-news-wire-off-to-salvador-with-a-bag-of-books-la-victorias-planned-bar-and-more/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 1:13 pm

  *


            Man Injured in Shooting Near Dolores Park
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/man-injured-in-shooting-near-dolores-park/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 10:56 am

  *


            3-Car Crash in SF’s Mission Sends Man to Hospital
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/3-car-crash-in-mission-district-this-morning/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 9:59 am

  *


            Facing Ageism with Dance, Photography, Fashion at ODC
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/facing-ageism-with-dance-photography-fashion-at-odc/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 9:00 am

  *


            In Stunner, City Strikes Down Major Mission Project
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/in-stunner-city-strikes-down-major-mission-project/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 6:00 am

  *


            Standing Rock Fund Raiser Tonight at the Make Out Room
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/standing-rock-fund-raiser-tonight-at-the-make-out-room/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 5:20 pm

  *


            Dolores Park “Eco Pop-Up” Deemed Successful
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/dolores-park-eco-pop-up-deemed-successful/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 4:40 pm

  *


            Two Men Injured, One Arrested in SF Mission Shootout
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/two-men-injured-one-arrested-in-sf-mission-shootout/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 11:17 am

  *


            SNAP: Banking is so Boring
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-banking-is-so-boring/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 10:56 am

  *


            News from Around the Bay: Wrongful Evictions and More
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/news-from-around-the-bay-wrongful-evictions-and-more/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 9:13 am

  *


            A Week After Trump, Leftist San Francisco Bookstore Modern
            Times Closes...
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/a-week-after-trump-modern-times-closes-doors/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 6:00 am

  *


            Two Injured in SF’s Mission After Shots Fired on Harrison
            Street
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/two-injured-in-sfs-mission-after-shots-fired-on-harrison-street/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 5:35 pm

  *


            Five Violent Robberies, Two Arrests in SF Mission Over
            Veteran’s Day...
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/five-violent-robberies-two-arrests-in-sf-mission-over-veterans-day-weekend/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 2:25 pm

  *


            SF’s Urban Film Festival
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/sfs-urban-film-festival/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 12:01 pm

  *


            Notes of Post-Election Empathy Adorn BART Station Walls
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/notes-of-post-election-empathy-adorn-bart-station-walls/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 11:40 am

  *


            SNAP: Breakfast on the Go
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-breakfast-on-the-go/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 10:56 am

••••
Mission Pie ORDER <javascript:void(0)>
Image
{{ title }}
{{ description }}

  * {{ comment.text }} - @{{ comment.from.username }}

{{ comment_count }} {{ comment_term }}{{ comment_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }} {{ like_count }} {{ like_term }}{{ like_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }}
ODC
A sneak peek of our children's chorus rehearsing for "The Velveteen
Rabbit"! See these talented kids onstage at the YBCA, Nov 25-Dec 11. Tix
at www.odc.dance/vr

  * Maya is in this! - @Berni Hui
  * - awesome - " "love . . . " - t-h-i-s - & Thanks So Much - ODC/Dance
    / ODC ! - @Catherine Kirsch

2 comments 4 likes
<https://ad.broadstreetads.com/click/81403>
Image
{{ title }}
{{ description }}

  * {{ comment.text }} - @{{ comment.from.username }}

{{ comment_count }} {{ comment_term }}{{ comment_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }} {{ like_count }} {{ like_term }}{{ like_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }}
Image
Dance Brigade's Dance Mission
Tonight! Don't sleep.
<https://ad.broadstreetads.com/click/85306>
Body Manipulations SR <javascript:void(0)>Brava SR Standing Rock
<javascript:void(0)>CASASF SR <javascript:void(0)>
Image
{{ title }}
{{ description }}

  * {{ comment.text }} - @{{ comment.from.username }}

{{ comment_count }} {{ comment_term }}{{ comment_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }} {{ like_count }} {{ like_term }}{{ like_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }}
Image
Mission Comics and Art
Artist Brian Stelfreeze show his amazing skills with this cover to Black
Panther #8
<https://ad.broadstreetads.com/click/80991>

Copyright 2016, MissionLocal | Powered by WordPress and the CalPress
theme | Privacy Policy <http://missionlocal.org/terms#privacy> |
Register <http://missionlocal.org/wp-login.php?action=register> | Log in
<http://missionlocal.org/wp-login.php>

Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

Copied!
Facebook <http://missionlocal.org/#facebook>Twitter
<http://missionlocal.org/#twitter>Google+
<http://missionlocal.org/#google_plus>Pinterest
<http://missionlocal.org/#pinterest>Email
<http://missionlocal.org/#email>LinkedIn
<http://missionlocal.org/#linkedin>Reddit
<http://missionlocal.org/#reddit>Tumblr
<http://missionlocal.org/#tumblr>WordPress
<http://missionlocal.org/#wordpress>Google Gmail
<http://missionlocal.org/#google_gmail>WhatsApp
<http://missionlocal.org/#whatsapp>StumbleUpon
<http://missionlocal.org/#stumbleupon>AIM
<http://missionlocal.org/#aim>Amazon Wish List
<http://missionlocal.org/#amazon_wish_list>AOL Mail
<http://missionlocal.org/#aol_mail>App.net
<http://missionlocal.org/#app_net>Baidu
<http://missionlocal.org/#baidu>Balatarin
<http://missionlocal.org/#balatarin>BibSonomy
<http://missionlocal.org/#bibsonomy>Bitty Browser
<http://missionlocal.org/#bitty_browser>Blinklist
<http://missionlocal.org/#blinklist>Blogger Post
<http://missionlocal.org/#blogger_post>BlogMarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#blogmarks>Bookmarks.fr
<http://missionlocal.org/#bookmarks_fr>Box.net
<http://missionlocal.org/#box_net>BuddyMarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#buddymarks>Buffer
<http://missionlocal.org/#buffer>Care2 News
<http://missionlocal.org/#care2_news>CiteULike
<http://missionlocal.org/#citeulike>Copy Link
<http://missionlocal.org/#copy_link>Delicious
<http://missionlocal.org/#delicious>Design Float
<http://missionlocal.org/#design_float>Diary.Ru
<http://missionlocal.org/#diary_ru>Diaspora
<http://missionlocal.org/#diaspora>Digg
<http://missionlocal.org/#digg>diHITT
<http://missionlocal.org/#dihitt>Diigo
<http://missionlocal.org/#diigo>Douban
<http://missionlocal.org/#douban>Draugiem
<http://missionlocal.org/#draugiem>DZone
<http://missionlocal.org/#dzone>Evernote
<http://missionlocal.org/#evernote>Facebook Messenger
<http://missionlocal.org/#facebook_messenger>Fark
<http://missionlocal.org/#fark>Flipboard
<http://missionlocal.org/#flipboard>Folkd
<http://missionlocal.org/#folkd>Google Bookmarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#google_bookmarks>Google Classroom
<http://missionlocal.org/#google_classroom>Hacker News
<http://missionlocal.org/#hacker_news>Hatena
<http://missionlocal.org/#hatena>Instapaper
<http://missionlocal.org/#instapaper>Jamespot
<http://missionlocal.org/#jamespot>Kakao
<http://missionlocal.org/#kakao>Kik <http://missionlocal.org/#kik>Kindle
It <http://missionlocal.org/#kindle_it>Known
<http://missionlocal.org/#known>Line
<http://missionlocal.org/#line>LiveJournal
<http://missionlocal.org/#livejournal>Mail.Ru
<http://missionlocal.org/#mail_ru>Mendeley
<http://missionlocal.org/#mendeley>Meneame
<http://missionlocal.org/#meneame>Mixi
<http://missionlocal.org/#mixi>MySpace
<http://missionlocal.org/#myspace>Netlog
<http://missionlocal.org/#netlog>Netvouz
<http://missionlocal.org/#netvouz>NewsVine
<http://missionlocal.org/#newsvine>NUjij
<http://missionlocal.org/#nujij>Odnoklassniki
<http://missionlocal.org/#odnoklassniki>Oknotizie
<http://missionlocal.org/#oknotizie>Outlook.com
<http://missionlocal.org/#outlook_com>Pinboard
<http://missionlocal.org/#pinboard>Plurk
<http://missionlocal.org/#plurk>Pocket
<http://missionlocal.org/#pocket>Print
<http://missionlocal.org/#print>PrintFriendly
<http://missionlocal.org/#printfriendly>Protopage Bookmarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#protopage_bookmarks>Pusha
<http://missionlocal.org/#pusha>Qzone
<http://missionlocal.org/#qzone>Rediff MyPage
<http://missionlocal.org/#rediff>Renren
<http://missionlocal.org/#renren>Segnalo
<http://missionlocal.org/#segnalo>Sina Weibo
<http://missionlocal.org/#sina_weibo>SiteJot
<http://missionlocal.org/#sitejot>Skype
<http://missionlocal.org/#skype>Slashdot
<http://missionlocal.org/#slashdot>SMS
<http://missionlocal.org/#sms>Stumpedia
<http://missionlocal.org/#stumpedia>Svejo
<http://missionlocal.org/#svejo>Symbaloo Feeds
<http://missionlocal.org/#symbaloo_feeds>Telegram
<http://missionlocal.org/#telegram>Trello
<http://missionlocal.org/#trello>Tuenti
<http://missionlocal.org/#tuenti>Twiddla
<http://missionlocal.org/#twiddla>TypePad Post
<http://missionlocal.org/#typepad_post>Viadeo
<http://missionlocal.org/#viadeo>Viber
<http://missionlocal.org/#viber>VK <http://missionlocal.org/#vk>Wanelo
<http://missionlocal.org/#wanelo>Webnews
<http://missionlocal.org/#webnews>WeChat
<http://missionlocal.org/#wechat>Wykop
<http://missionlocal.org/#wykop>XING
<http://missionlocal.org/#xing>Yahoo Bookmarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#yahoo_bookmarks>Yahoo Mail
<http://missionlocal.org/#yahoo_mail>Yahoo Messenger
<http://missionlocal.org/#yahoo_messenger>Yoolink
<http://missionlocal.org/#yoolink>YouMob
<http://missionlocal.org/#youmob>Yummly
<http://missionlocal.org/#yummly>////
AddToAny <https://www.addtoany.com/>
Facebook

<http://missionlocal.org/#facebook>Twitter

<http://missionlocal.org/#twitter>Google+

<http://missionlocal.org/#google_plus>Pinterest

<http://missionlocal.org/#pinterest>Email

<http://missionlocal.org/#email>LinkedIn

<http://missionlocal.org/#linkedin>Reddit

<http://missionlocal.org/#reddit>Tumblr

<http://missionlocal.org/#tumblr>
Google Gmail

<http://missionlocal.org/#google_gmail>AOL Mail

<http://missionlocal.org/#aol_mail>Outlook.com

<http://missionlocal.org/#outlook_com>Yahoo Mail

<http://missionlocal.org/#yahoo_mail>Any email

<http://missionlocal.org/#email_form>Email app

<http://missionlocal.org/#email_form>
More…

:)
