  * Home <http://kron4.com/>
  * News <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o Bay Area News <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o California News <http://kron4.com/category/news/california-news/>
      o DECISION 2016
        <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/election-2016/>
      o National <http://kron4.com/category/news/national/>
      o International <http://kron4.com/category/news/international/>
      o Politics <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/>
      o Strange <http://kron4.com/category/news/strange/>
      o Entertainment News <http://kron4.com/bitesizetv/>
      o MyKRON4Story <http://kron4.com/category/news/mykron4story/>
      o Our Team <http://kron4.com/category/news/kron4-news-team/>
  * Bay Area Weather <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>
      o Airport Delays <http://kron4.com/weather/airport-delays/>
      o Current Conditions <http://kron4.com/weather/current-conditions/>
      o Earthquakes <http://kron4.com/weather/earthquakes/>
      o Fire Danger <http://kron4.com/weather/fire-danger/>
      o Forecasts <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>
      o Live Cameras <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>
      o Rainfall Totals <http://kron4.com/weather/rainfall-totals/>
      o Satellite <http://kron4.com/weather/satellite/>
      o SatRad <http://kron4.com/weather/satrad/>
      o Weather Alerts <http://kron4.com/weather-alerts/>
  * Traffic <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
      o Live Cameras <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Traffic Conditions
        <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
  * Sports <http://kron4.com/category/sports/>
      o Gary’s World <http://kron4.com/category/sports/gary-radnich/>
      o San Francisco 49ers <http://kron4.com/category/sports/49ers/>
      o Oakland A’s <http://kron4.com/category/sports/as/>
      o Cal <http://kron4.com/category/sports/cal/>
      o Giants <http://kron4.com/category/sports/giants/>
      o Raiders <http://kron4.com/category/sports/raiders/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes
        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o Sharks <http://kron4.com/category/sports/sharks/>
      o Stanford <http://kron4.com/category/sports/stanford-sports/>
      o Warriors <http://kron4.com/category/sports/warriors/>
  * Features <http://kron4.com/category/features/>
      o Fleet Week <http://kron4.com/category/fleet-week/>
      o Bay Area Living <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/>
      o KRON 4 BackStory <http://kron4.com/category/kron-4-backstory/>
      o Dine & Dish <http://kron4.com/category/features/dine-dish/>
      o Family Fun <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/family-fun/>
      o KRON 4’s Teacher of the Week
        <http://kron4.com/kron-4s-teacher-of-the-week/>
      o Tech Trends <http://kron4.com/category/features/tech/>
      o People Behaving Badly
        <http://kron4.com/category/features/people-behaving-badly/>
      o Ready 4 School <http://kron4.com/category/back-to-school/>
  * KRON <http://kron4.com/category/kron/>
      o Jobs at KRON <http://kron4.com/category/kron/jobs-at-kron/>
      o Community <http://kron4.com/category/kron/community/>
      o Contests <http://kron4.com/category/kron/contests/>
      o Advertising Terms and Conditions
        <https://mgtvkron.files.wordpress.com/2014/12/young-broadcasting-advertising-ts-and-cs.pdf>
      o Advertise with KRON 4
        <http://kron4.com/category/advertise-with-kron/>
      o History of Bay Area
        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/25/tech-trends-history-of-bay-area-revived-through-remastering-old-news-film-footage/>
  * KRON 4 Live <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Live News Casts <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Second Screen Live Stream
        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/16/live-stream-kron4-news-second-screen/>
  * More <http://kron4.com/category/more/>
      o Report It! <http://kron4.com/report-it/>
      o Contact Us <http://kron4.com/contact-us/>
      o Television Schedule <http://kron4.com/television-schedule/>
      o Marketplace <http://kron4.com/category/marketplace/>
      o Closed Captioning Contact Info
        <http://kron4.com/closed-captioning-contact-information/>


  KRON4.com <http://kron4.com/>

Few Clouds


      58° F

Few Clouds

  * Hi: 65° F
  * Lo: 55° F

<http://kron4.com/category/weather>

  * San Francisco Bay Area Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>
  * Forecasts <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>
  * Bay Area Traffic Conditions
    <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>


Menu

Skip to content

<#content>  
Home

<http://kron4.com/>

  * News

    <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o Bay Area News

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o California News

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/california-news/>
      o DECISION 2016

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/election-2016/>
      o National

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/national/>
      o International

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/international/>
      o Politics

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/>
      o Strange

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/strange/>
      o Entertainment News

        <http://kron4.com/bitesizetv/>
      o MyKRON4Story

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/mykron4story/>
      o Our Team

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/kron4-news-team/>
  * Bay Area Weather

    <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>


          Bay Area Weather

      o Airport Delays <http://kron4.com/weather/airport-delays/>
      o Current Conditions <http://kron4.com/weather/current-conditions/>
      o Earthquakes <http://kron4.com/weather/earthquakes/>
      o Fire Danger <http://kron4.com/weather/fire-danger/>
      o Forecasts <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>
      o Live Cameras <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>
      o Rainfall Totals <http://kron4.com/weather/rainfall-totals/>
      o Satellite <http://kron4.com/weather/satellite/>
      o SatRad <http://kron4.com/weather/satrad/>
      o Weather Alerts <http://kron4.com/weather-alerts/>


          Current Conditions


          58° F

    Few Clouds

      o Feels Like: 58° F
      o Wind: W 10
      o Humidity: 87%
      o Dewpoint: 54° F
      o Sunrise: 6:49 AM
      o Sunset: 4:58 PM

    <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>


          San Francisco Weather


    Forecast <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>

    Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>


    Currently <http://kron4.com/weather/current-conditions/>

    Live Cams <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>

    Sponsored by:

  * Traffic

    <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
      o Live Cameras

        <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Traffic Conditions

        <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
  * Sports

    <http://kron4.com/category/sports/>
      o Gary’s World

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/gary-radnich/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/49ers/>
      o Oakland A’s

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/as/>
      o Cal

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/cal/>
      o Giants

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/giants/>
      o Raiders

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/raiders/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o Sharks

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/sharks/>
      o Stanford

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/stanford-sports/>
      o Warriors

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/warriors/>
  * Features

    <http://kron4.com/category/features/>
      o Fleet Week

        <http://kron4.com/category/fleet-week/>
      o Bay Area Living

        <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/>
      o KRON 4 BackStory

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron-4-backstory/>
      o Dine & Dish

        <http://kron4.com/category/features/dine-dish/>
      o Family Fun

        <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/family-fun/>
      o KRON 4’s Teacher of the Week

        <http://kron4.com/kron-4s-teacher-of-the-week/>
      o Tech Trends

        <http://kron4.com/category/features/tech/>
      o People Behaving Badly

        <http://kron4.com/category/features/people-behaving-badly/>
      o Ready 4 School

        <http://kron4.com/category/back-to-school/>
  * KRON

    <http://kron4.com/category/kron/>
      o Jobs at KRON

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron/jobs-at-kron/>
      o Community

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron/community/>
      o Contests

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron/contests/>
      o Advertising Terms and Conditions

        <https://mgtvkron.files.wordpress.com/2014/12/young-broadcasting-advertising-ts-and-cs.pdf>
      o Advertise with KRON 4

        <http://kron4.com/category/advertise-with-kron/>
      o History of Bay Area

        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/25/tech-trends-history-of-bay-area-revived-through-remastering-old-news-film-footage/>
  * KRON 4 Live

    <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Live News Casts

        <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Second Screen Live Stream

        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/16/live-stream-kron4-news-second-screen/>
  * More

    <http://kron4.com/category/more/>
      o Report It!

        <http://kron4.com/report-it/>
      o Contact Us

        <http://kron4.com/contact-us/>
      o Television Schedule

        <http://kron4.com/television-schedule/>
      o Marketplace

        <http://kron4.com/category/marketplace/>
      o Closed Captioning Contact Info

        <http://kron4.com/closed-captioning-contact-information/>

Search for:

Search the site <#>
Few Clouds


      58° F

Few Clouds

  * Hi: 65° F
  * Lo: 55° F

<http://kron4.com/category/weather>


  Proposed law would allow police to clear out ‘Tent Cities’ in San
  Francisco

Spencer Blake, KRON Published: June 29, 2016, 7:23 am Updated: June 29,
2016, 9:31 am

  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/proposed-law-would-allow-police-to-clear-out-tent-cities-in-san-francisco/?share=twitter>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/proposed-law-would-allow-police-to-clear-out-tent-cities-in-san-francisco/?share=google-plus-1>
  * Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/proposed-law-would-allow-police-to-clear-out-tent-cities-in-san-francisco/?share=facebook>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/proposed-law-would-allow-police-to-clear-out-tent-cities-in-san-francisco/?share=pinterest>

tent city


      Related Coverage

  *


      SF proposed ballot measure to tax large tech companies to fund
      homeless
      <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/sf-proposed-ballot-measure-to-tax-large-tech-companies-to-fund-homeless/>

  *


      VIDEO: San Francisco opens second navigation center to help
      homeless find housing
      <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/san-francisco-opens-second-navigation-center-to-help-homeless-find-housing/>

  *


      KRON4 teams up with media outlets for San Francisco Homeless
      Project
      <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/kron4-teams-up-with-media-outlets-for-san-francisco-homeless-project/>

SAN FRANCISCO (KRON) — The homeless problem isn’t going anywhere in San
Francisco, but the ‘Tent Cities’ might be depending on a vote this fall.

A new measure that on the November ballot would allow law enforcement to
clear out homeless encampments, as long as they provide written notice
24 hours ahead of time.

The city would also have to offer a bed or shelter before telling people
to move along.

“We cannot police ourselves out of the homeless crisis,” said Bilal Alo,
a homeless human rights advocate.

    *SPECIAL SECTION:* SF Homeless Project
    <http://kron4.com/category/sf-homeless-project/>

The coalition on homelessness isn’t mincing words on the measure, which
was submitted just before last Tuesday’s deadline.

“This is an anti-homeless law, okay? And we’ve got plenty of those,”
said Kelley Cutler, a Human Rights organizer.

Under the proposal, law enforcement could also seize personal items that
belong to people in homeless camps, who would then have 90 days to claim
it after relocating.

Some homeless people that spoke with KRON4 were already upset about the
‘bag and tag’ policies, even before the initiative made the ballot.

“I just can’t figure out what I’m supposed to do if I can’t abandon my
stuff for a little while to even go look for a job, or, ya know, you
come back, and everything’s gone,” said Joseph who is homeless.

The coalition listed several problems it has with Supervisor Farrell’s idea.

First, they say homelessness is a social issue that shouldn’t be handled
by police.

They also say it’s punitive, a violation of civil and human rights. And
on top of it all, ineffective.

“They’ll do a sweep, but since there’s nowhere to go, then people shift
like a block away, two blocks away,” Cutler said.

Cutler says even the required offer of a bed or shelter for campers
wouldn’t work because it would only take a spot away from one of the
more than 800 people who are on the shelter wait lists.

So is there a better option to clean up the streets?

“I would reduce monies being spent on enforcement policy, and that money
being transferred over to a policy that provides affordable and
supportive housing,” said Alo.

But right now, the budget for housing and urban development still isn’t
growing. But the number of homeless is.

More than 6,600 people are still living on the streets in San Francisco.

Top News
Sponsored By:


      Top Headlines From kron4.com

 
Powered By
<http://i.jsrdn.com/i/1.gif?r=b6nd&k=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&fwd=http%3A%2F%2Fdistroscale.com>



Share this:

  * Click to email (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/proposed-law-would-allow-police-to-clear-out-tent-cities-in-san-francisco/?share=email&nb=1>
  * More <#>
*

  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/proposed-law-would-allow-police-to-clear-out-tent-cities-in-san-francisco/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/proposed-law-would-allow-police-to-clear-out-tent-cities-in-san-francisco/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  *
  * Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/proposed-law-would-allow-police-to-clear-out-tent-cities-in-san-francisco/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/proposed-law-would-allow-police-to-clear-out-tent-cities-in-san-francisco/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  *
*


        Related Posts

File - In this Feb. 26, 2016, file photo, a city worker tells a homeless
man that the area next to him on is about to be power washed and points
to an area he might want to move in San Francisco. Media outlets in San
Francisco plan to saturate internet, broadcast and print publications
this week with news stories about an issue that has stumped politicians
and residents for decades: The city's homeless. Editors will concentrate
media coverage on Wednesday, June 29, 2016, although news groups also
plan stories throughout the week in an effort to inform residents and
spur action. (AP Photo/Eric Risberg, File)
<http://kron4.com/2016/10/13/sf-homeless-unite-with-lgbt-community-to-protest-tent-ban/>



  SF Homeless unite with LGBT community to protest tent ban
  <http://kron4.com/2016/10/13/sf-homeless-unite-with-lgbt-community-to-protest-tent-ban/>

b348e44ab62f4b829be367eb372bd2e2
<http://kron4.com/2016/11/07/no-charges-filed-for-berkeley-homeless-crackdown-protesters/>



  No charges filed for Berkeley homeless crackdown protesters
  <http://kron4.com/2016/11/07/no-charges-filed-for-berkeley-homeless-crackdown-protesters/>

a9c3f16d780347ee874b193bf962d992
<http://kron4.com/2016/11/09/video-measure-that-would-ban-tents-on-san-francisco-sidewalks-to-pass/>



  VIDEO: Measure that would ban tents on San Francisco sidewalks to pass
  <http://kron4.com/2016/11/09/video-measure-that-would-ban-tents-on-san-francisco-sidewalks-to-pass/>

homeless
<http://kron4.com/2016/11/04/berkeley-officials-and-police-strategies-questioned-regarding-homeless-encampments/>



  Berkeley’s homeless plan questioned
  <http://kron4.com/2016/11/04/berkeley-officials-and-police-strategies-questioned-regarding-homeless-encampments/>

Advertisement

« Previous Story
<http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/mark-zuckerbergs-hawaii-neighbors-angered-by-6-ft-wall/>
— Next Story »
<http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/the-world-according-to-gary-radnich-as-lead-giants-in-bay-bridge-series/>

  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
by Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Sponsored Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
You May Like
Truthfinder
<http://liquidpch.go2cloud.org/aff_c?offer_id=935&aff_id=1099&aff_sub=%7BClickId%7D&aff_sub2=%7BPlacementId%7D&source=%7BPublisherId%7D&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>Search
Any Name And See Why This Site Is So AddictingTruthfinder
<http://liquidpch.go2cloud.org/aff_c?offer_id=935&aff_id=1099&aff_sub=%7BClickId%7D&aff_sub2=%7BPlacementId%7D&source=%7BPublisherId%7D&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>
Undo
Lower My Bills
<https://www.lowermybills.com/lending/home-refinance/index.loan?sourceid=lmb-43857-82780&moid=147627&providerId=9628390&pkey1=mediageneral-newskron4&pkey2=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F2127352fefaa745fce6c5d115cef92eb.jpg&pkey3=Congress+Gives+Homeowners+Who+Owe+Less+Than+%24625k+A+Once-In-A-Lifetime+Mortgage+Bailout>Congress
Gives Homeowners Who Owe Less Than $625k A Once-In-A-L…Lower My Bills
<https://www.lowermybills.com/lending/home-refinance/index.loan?sourceid=lmb-43857-82780&moid=147627&providerId=9628390&pkey1=mediageneral-newskron4&pkey2=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F2127352fefaa745fce6c5d115cef92eb.jpg&pkey3=Congress+Gives+Homeowners+Who+Owe+Less+Than+%24625k+A+Once-In-A-Lifetime+Mortgage+Bailout>
Undo
Blue Apron
<http://try.blueapron.com/perfectdinnertb?cvosrc=content-paid.taboola.perfectdinnerTB2&utm_campaign=perfectdinnerTB2&utm_medium=content-paid&utm_source=taboola>My
Husband and I Tried Blue Apron, Here's What HappenedBlue Apron
<http://try.blueapron.com/perfectdinnertb?cvosrc=content-paid.taboola.perfectdinnerTB2&utm_campaign=perfectdinnerTB2&utm_medium=content-paid&utm_source=taboola>
Undo
HelloFresh
<https://www.hellofresh.com/storytelling-cd/?c=TABOOLA40&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=content&utm_campaign=ST&utm_content=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_term=This+Service+in+%24%7Bcity%3Acapitalized%7D%24+is+Changing+the+Way+People+Cook+at+Home>This
Service in Stanford is Changing the Way People Cook at HomeHelloFresh
<https://www.hellofresh.com/storytelling-cd/?c=TABOOLA40&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=content&utm_campaign=ST&utm_content=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_term=This+Service+in+%24%7Bcity%3Acapitalized%7D%24+is+Changing+the+Way+People+Cook+at+Home>
Undo
Carnival Cruise
<https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/309230750;136774796;o?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>10
Things I Wish I'd Known as a Cruise RookieCarnival Cruise
<https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/309230750;136774796;o?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>
Undo
U.S. Bank Mortgage
<http://achieve.usbank.com/my-home/10-questions-ask-hiring-contractor/?ecid=PS_17096>What
You May Need to Know: 10 Important Questions for ContractorsU.S. Bank
Mortgage
<http://achieve.usbank.com/my-home/10-questions-ask-hiring-contractor/?ecid=PS_17096>
Undo
Show Comments

Advertisement


  Trending on KRON4.com


  More Bay Area News

  *
    6c066004beb74858bd33a71cf70f8f2c
    <http://kron4.com/2016/11/14/video-former-california-elector-addresses-change-org-petition-which-calls-for-electoral-college-to-vote-for-clinton-instead-of-trump/>



      Former elector on petition to reverse election
      <http://kron4.com/2016/11/14/video-former-california-elector-addresses-change-org-petition-which-calls-for-electoral-college-to-vote-for-clinton-instead-of-trump/>

  *
    8c96e72019404acaacf30cc612882589
    <http://kron4.com/2016/11/14/tech-report-comparing-and-contrasting-the-iphone-to-googles-pixel/>



      Tech Report: iPhone versus Google's Pixel
      <http://kron4.com/2016/11/14/tech-report-comparing-and-contrasting-the-iphone-to-googles-pixel/>

  *
    shuttle
    <http://kron4.com/2016/11/14/reducing-commuter-shuttle-stops-could-put-more-cars-on-the-road-study-says/>



      Reducing shuttle stops could put more cars on the road
      <http://kron4.com/2016/11/14/reducing-commuter-shuttle-stops-could-put-more-cars-on-the-road-study-says/>

  *
    trump-letters
    <http://kron4.com/2016/11/14/portola-valley-first-graders-letters-to-trump-goes-viral/>



      Portola Valley first graders’ letters to Trump goes viral
      <http://kron4.com/2016/11/14/portola-valley-first-graders-letters-to-trump-goes-viral/>


  MORE FROM EMILY KIRSCHENHEUTER

  *
    A man carries an umbrella while walking along a road on Bernal
    Heights Hill in San Francisco, Friday, Oct. 14, 2016. Rain, wind and
    coastal flooding is expected to affect the San Francisco Bay Area
    through part of Saturday. (AP Photo/Jeff Chiu)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/10/23/two-rounds-of-rain-to-hit-bay-area-this-week/>



      Strong storm to hit Bay Area Thursday
      <http://kron4.com/2016/10/23/two-rounds-of-rain-to-hit-bay-area-this-week/>

  *
    Ethan Dunn
    <http://kron4.com/2016/09/13/sheriffs-deputys-wife-arrested-for-deadly-crash-had-prior-dui/>



      Sheriff’s deputy’s wife arrested in deadly crash had prior DUI
      <http://kron4.com/2016/09/13/sheriffs-deputys-wife-arrested-for-deadly-crash-had-prior-dui/>

  *
    brucemiller-mug
    <http://kron4.com/2016/09/09/ex-49er-bruce-miller-due-to-court-for-alleged-beating-elderly-man-son/>



      Ex 49er Bruce Miller due to court
      <http://kron4.com/2016/09/09/ex-49er-bruce-miller-due-to-court-for-alleged-beating-elderly-man-son/>

  *
    fremont
    <http://kron4.com/2016/09/06/south-bay-high-school-receives-anonymous-threats-on-social-media/>



      17-year-old arrested after threatening Jewish students
      <http://kron4.com/2016/09/06/south-bay-high-school-receives-anonymous-threats-on-social-media/>

  *
    protest
    <http://kron4.com/2016/09/02/protesters-awaiting-brock-turners-release-gather-outside-jail/>



      Protesters gather for Brock Turner’s release
      <http://kron4.com/2016/09/02/protesters-awaiting-brock-turners-release-gather-outside-jail/>


  KRON Resource Links

KRON Links <http://kron4.com/category/news/news-links/> *KRON LINKS*
<http://kron4.com/category/news/news-links/> as mentioned on KRON News
KRON Weather <http://kron4.com/category/weather/> *Bay Area Weather*
<http://kron4.com/category/weather/>
KRON Report <http://kron4.com/contact-us/> *Report It!*
<http://kron4.com/contact-us/> Submit a tip to KRON
KRON 4 App Get KRON 4 App [*iPhone/iPad*
<https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/kron-4/id472672814?mt=8>] [*Android*
<https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.linmedia.newstouch.ksnw>]


<http://kron4.com/category/advertise-with-kron/>

Advertisement

Advertisement

Advertisement


    KRON4.com <http://kron4.com/>

© Copyright 2000 - 2016 Young Broadcasting of San Francisco, Inc. A
Media General Company.

Powered by WordPress.com VIP
<https://vip.wordpress.com/?utm_source=vip_powered_wpcom&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=VIP%20Footer%20Credit>


      Sections

  * News <http://kron4.com/category/news/>
  * San Francisco Bay Area Weather <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>
  * Traffic <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
  * Sports <http://kron4.com/category/sports/>
  * Features <http://kron4.com/category/features/>


      Station

  * Contact Us <http://kron4.com/contact-us/>
  * Television Schedule <http://kron4.com/television-schedule/>
  * Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KRON4>
  * Twitter <https://twitter.com/kron4news>


      Business

  * Terms of Use <http://kron4.com/terms-of-use/>
  * FCC Public File <https://publicfiles.fcc.gov/tv-profile/kron-tv>
  * EEO Report
    <https://publicfiles.fcc.gov/tv-profile/kron-tv/equal-employment-opportunity-records/additional-documents/eeo-public-file-reports/f7008eea-d138-0cca-830a-8cfa91a32037/>
  * Children’s Programming
    <https://publicfiles.fcc.gov/tv-profile/kron-tv/programs-list/>
  * Closed Captioning Contact Information
    <http://kron4.com/closed-captioning-contact-information/>
  * Media General <http://mediageneral.com/>


      Follow

  * Subscribe via RSS <http://kron4.com/feed/>
  * Follow us on Twitter <https://twitter.com/kron4news>
  * Join us on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KRON4>
  * Follow us on YouTube <https://www.youtube.com/user/kron4tv>
  * Follow us on Google+ <https://plus.google.com/+kron4tv>
  * Follow us on Pinterest <https://pinterest.com/kron4tv>
  * Follow us on Instagram <https://instagram.com/kron4tv>

<#>
LIVE STREAM:
KRON4 News at 10 PM
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

:)
