Next Article
//
Just an advertisement

s
/

/

  * Sign In
    <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx?SentFromUrl=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.pressdemocrat.com%2F>
  * e-Edition
    <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx?SentFromUrl=eEdition>
  * Subscribe <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx>

s
Sections
/

/

  * Home

    <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/>
  * News

    <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/>
    /

    /
      o Local News

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/local/>
      o Arrest Logs

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/arrest/>
      o Towns

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/towns>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/obits/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/weather/>
      o Videos

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/video/>
      o Archives

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/archives/>
      o Gallery

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/gallery/>
      o Datacenter

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/datacenter/>
  * Opinion

    <http://pressdemocrat.com/opinion>
    /

    /
      o Editorials

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/editorials/>
      o Close to Home

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/closetohome/>
      o Letters

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/letters/>
      o Paul Gullixson

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=paulgullixson>
      o Pete Golis

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=petegolis>
  * Sports

    <http://pressdemocrat.com/sports>
    /

    /
      o PD Preps

        <http://www.pdpreps.com/>
      o NFL

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sports/nfl/>
      o NBA

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sports/nba/>
      o MLB

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sports/mlb/>
      o College

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sports/college/>
      o Kerry Benefield

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=kerrybenefield>
      o 49ers Blog

        <http://49ers.pressdemocrat.com/>
      o Bob Padecky

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=bobpadecky>
      o Lowell Cohn

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=lowellcohn>
      o Grant Cohn

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=grantcohn>
  * Business

    <http://pressdemocrat.com/business>
    /

    /
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/business/realestate/>
      o Business Journal

        <http://www.northbaybusinessjournal.com/>
      o People & Business

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/peopleinbusiness>
      o Book of Lists

        <http://lists.northbaybusinessjournal.com/index.htm>
      o Wine Business

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=winebusiness>
  * Food & Wine

    <http://pressdemocrat.com/lifestyle/food>
    /

    /
      o Bite Club

        <http://www.biteclubeats.com/>
      o Wine

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/lifestyle/wine>
      o Beer

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/topics/?t=pd-beer>
  * Lifestyle

    <http://pressdemocrat.com/lifestyle>
    /

    /
      o Home and Garden

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=homeandgarden>
      o Unions

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/unions>
      o Outdoors

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=outdoors>
      o Biteclub

        <http://www.biteclubeats.com/>
      o Beer

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/topics/?t=pd-beer>
      o Pets

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/lifestyle/pets/>
      o Celebrate Community

        <http://www.celebratecommunity.org/>
  * A & E

    <http://pressdemocrat.com/entertainment>
    /

    /
      o Games

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/games/>
      o Calendar

        <http://events.pressdemocrat.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.pressdemocrat.com/>
      o TV Blog + Listings

        <http://tv.blogs.pressdemocrat.com/>
      o Sudoku

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sudoku/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/horoscopes/>
  * Cars

    <http://www.northbaycarsearch.com/>
  * Blogs

    <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/blogs/>

/

/

/

/
Sections
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/> News
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/> Obits
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/obits/> Sports
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sports/> Business
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/business/> Opinion
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/> Food & Wine
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/lifestyle/food/> Lifestyle
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/lifestyle/> A&E
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/entertainment/> Events
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/events> Blogs
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/blogs/>
Subscribe

<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx>
//

You've read 5 of 15 free articles this month.
Support local journalism and get unlimited access to PressDemocrat.com,
the eEdition and our mobile app, all starting at 99 cents per month.
Already a subscriber?Sign In <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx>
Click Here to Subscribe
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx?SentFromUrl=http://www.pressdemocrat.com&type=Speedbump&bump=A1>

CLOSE X
<#>
You've read 10 of 15 free articles this month.
Support local journalism and get unlimited access to PressDemocrat.com,
the eEdition and our mobile app, all starting at 99 cents per month.
Already a subscriber?Sign In <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx>
Click Here to Subscribe
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx?SentFromUrl=http://www.pressdemocrat.com&type=Speedbump&bump=A2>

CLOSE X
<#>
You've read all of your free articles this month.
Support local journalism and get unlimited access to PressDemocrat.com,
the eEdition and our mobile app, all starting at 99 cents per month.
Already a subscriber?Sign In <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx>
Click Here to Subscribe
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx?SentFromUrl=http://www.pressdemocrat.com&type=Speedbump&bump=A3>

CLOSE X
<#>
We've got a special deal for readers like you.
Support local journalism and get unlimited access to PressDemocrat.com,
the eEdition and our mobile app, all starting at 99 cents per month.
Already a subscriber?Sign In <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx>
Click Here to Subscribe
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx?SentFromUrl=http://www.pressdemocrat.com&type=Speedbump&bump=B1>

CLOSE X
<#>
Thanks for reading! Why not subscribe?
Support local journalism and get unlimited access to PressDemocrat.com,
the eEdition and our mobile app, all starting at 99 cents per month.
Already a subscriber?Sign In <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx>
Click Here to Subscribe
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx?SentFromUrl=http://www.pressdemocrat.com&type=Speedbump&bump=B2>

CLOSE X
<#>
Want to keep reading? Subscribe today!
Ooops! You're out of free articles. Starting at just 99 cents per month,
you can keep reading all of our products and support local journalism.
Already a subscriber?Sign In <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx>
Click Here to Subscribe
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx?SentFromUrl=http://www.pressdemocrat.com&type=Speedbump&bump=B3>

CLOSE X
<#>
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6317684-181/anchored-sailboat-burns>
Sailboat anchored in Bodega Harbor burns
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6317684-181/anchored-sailboat-burns?ref=TSM>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315200-181/brandon-maxfield-child-shooting-victim>

Willits man paralyzed by bullet as child dies at 29
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315200-181/brandon-maxfield-child-shooting-victim?ref=TSM>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315335-181/smith-late-nights-are-little>

Smith: Late nights are little trouble for this ‘Music Man’ duo
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315335-181/smith-late-nights-are-little?ref=TSM>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6316374-181/patchy-frost-expected-for-north>

Patchy frost expected early Thursday
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6316374-181/patchy-frost-expected-for-north?ref=TSM>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6297387-181/sonoma-county-seeks-ways-to>
Housing shortage in spotlight
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6297387-181/sonoma-county-seeks-ways-to?ref=TSM>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315535-181/witness-testify-against-santa-rosa>

Witness testify against woman who drove into night club crowd
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315535-181/witness-testify-against-santa-rosa?ref=TSM>



          *(17 of 18)* Morning light spreads under the Highway 101 over
          crossing on Sixth Street in Santa Rosa as a homeless man
          sleeps. (KENT PORTER / The Press Democrat)


          *(18 of 18)* Sherry Lindsley embraces a friend beneath the
          Highway 101 overcrossing on Sixth Street in Santa Rosa after
          the two slept there overnight. (KENT PORTER / Press Democrat)


          *(1 of 18)* Homeless and mentally disabled, Sherry Lindsley
          embraces a friend at the Highway 101 overcrossing on Sixth
          Street in Santa Rosa after the two slept there overnight,
          Tuesday June 21, 2016. (Kent Porter / Press Democrat) 2016


          *(2 of 18)* After grabbing a free meal at the St. Vincent
          DePaul food kitchen, homeless men pedal through the Cleveland
          and College Avenue intersection, Tuesday June 21, 2016 in
          Santa Rosa. (Kent Porter / Press Democrat) 2016


          *(3 of 18)* A homeless man sleeps beneath the Highway 101
          overcrossing at Ninth Street in Santa Rosa, Tuesday June 21,
          2016. (Kent Porter / Press Democrat) 2016


          *(4 of 18)* Debris litters Homeless Hill off Farmers Lane in
          Santa Rosa, Tuesday June 21, 2016. (Kent Porter / Press
          Democrat) 2016


          *(5 of 18)* Debris litters Homeless Hill off of Farmers Lane
          in Santa Rosa, Tuesday June 21, 2016. (Kent Porter / Press
          Democrat) 2016


          *(6 of 18)* Katie Bateman wipes the sleep from her face on
          Homeless Hill in Santa Rosa, Tuesday June 21, 2016. (Kent
          Porter / Press Democrat) 2016


          *(7 of 18)* Capricia Moore cleans up her campsite on Homeless
          Hill off of Farmers Lane and Bennett Valley Road in Santa
          Rosa, Tuesday June 21, 2016 in Santa Rosa. (Kent Porter /
          Press Democrat) 2016


          *(8 of 18)* Bike parts are strewn about on Homeless Hill off
          Farmers Lane in Santa Rosa, Tuesday June 21, 2016. (Kent
          Porter / Press Democrat) 2016


          *(9 of 18)* Sam Jones Hall is run by Catholic Charities and
          provides homeless individuals with temporary shelter,
          Wednesday June 22, 2016. (Kent Porter / Press Democrat) 2016


          *(10 of 18)* Bud Tricker lives at Catholic Charities' Sam
          Jones Hall in Santa Rosa and helps cook meals for his fellow
          homeless residents, Tuesday June 21, 2016. (Kent Porter /
          Press Democrat) 2016


          *(11 of 18)* Daniel Maldonado reclines on a bed inside
          Catholic Charities' Sam Jones Hall on Wednesday June 22, 2016
          (Kent Porter / Press Democrat) 2016


          *(12 of 18)* Nicole Sweeney and her son, Chays, share a meal
          at the St. Vincent de Paul dining room Tuesday June 21, 2016
          (Kent Porter / Press Democrat) 2016


          *(13 of 18)* Daybreak under the Highway 101 overcrossing at
          Sixth Street in Santa Rosa, where s a homeless man sleeps,
          Tuesday June 21, 2016. (Kent Porter / Press Democrat) 2016


          *(14 of 18)* Santa Rosa firefighters assist homeless resident
          Teddy Lamantia on College Avenue near Santa Rosa Junior
          College, Tuesday June 21, 2016. (Kent Porter / Press Democrat)
          2016


          *(15 of 18)* (Kent Porter / Press Democrat) 2016


          *(16 of 18)* (Kent Porter / Press Democrat) 2016


          *(17 of 18)* Morning light spreads under the Highway 101 over
          crossing on Sixth Street in Santa Rosa as a homeless man
          sleeps. (KENT PORTER / The Press Democrat)


          *(18 of 18)* Sherry Lindsley embraces a friend beneath the
          Highway 101 overcrossing on Sixth Street in Santa Rosa after
          the two slept there overnight. (KENT PORTER / Press Democrat)


          *(1 of 18)* Homeless and mentally disabled, Sherry Lindsley
          embraces a friend at the Highway 101 overcrossing on Sixth
          Street in Santa Rosa after the two slept there overnight,
          Tuesday June 21, 2016. (Kent Porter / Press Democrat) 2016


          *(2 of 18)* After grabbing a free meal at the St. Vincent
          DePaul food kitchen, homeless men pedal through the Cleveland
          and College Avenue intersection, Tuesday June 21, 2016 in
          Santa Rosa. (Kent Porter / Press Democrat) 2016

//
//
//
 <javascript:prevSlidePlease();>
//
 <javascript:nextSlidePlease();>


  Pushed from hidden encampments, plight of Santa Rosa's homeless grows
  more visible

PAUL PAYNE

THE PRESS DEMOCRAT | June 24, 2016

<#>

<#>

<#>

Jennifer Badolato’s banged-up red Nissan is more than just a car. It’s
her home.

The Santa Rosa woman doesn’t make enough money in her job at Walmart to
afford an apartment in Sonoma County, where rents have skyrocketed over
the past four years to an average of $1,700 a month.

So Badolato, who became homeless in November, lives on the road, driving
from spot to spot, spending her paycheck on gas, food and the occasional
hotel room, “just to stay sane.”

“It’s been hard,” said the 44-year-old woman as she waited with a dozen
others outside a downtown Santa Rosa nonprofit offering free breakfast
bars and hot showers. “But it’s better to live in a car than on these
streets.”

Santa Rosa is swarming with homeless people who have been pushed from
hidden encampments into startling public view. With affordable housing
scarce and shelters at maximum capacity, many are turning up at
storefronts and on median strips, in city parks and under freeway
overpasses.

Police are flooded with complaints about public drunkenness, aggressive
panhandling and loud fights at all hours. In May, a homeless man was
killed in an attack at Rae Park across the street from City Hall that
police said was fueled by a dispute over cigarettes or pot.

The problem has become so bad that next month, the Santa Rosa City
Council will consider declaring a homeless emergency as part of a slate
of measures intended to get people off the streets.

“The indisputable fact is we have a serious issue with homelessness, not
just downtown but citywide,” said Santa Rosa police Lt. John Cregan, the
department’s point man on the topic. “And we’re going to have to do
something about it.”

Officials estimate 2,000 people are living without permanent shelter in
Sonoma County as a whole, a homelessness rate higher than San Francisco
and three times the national average of about 18 homeless people per
10,000 people in the general population.

Although overall numbers are down from the previous year, visibility has
increased and there’s a perception among residents and downtown
merchants that homelessness is actually on the rise.

Homeless people who once lived in hidden encampments along creeks and
rail lines have been forced out by waterway cleanups and the arrival of
a new regional commuter train.

Others believe homeless people are coming from outside the area to take
advantage of better transient services. But according to an official
estimate, about 85 percent of the county’s homeless population were last
housed locally and 55 percent have lived in the county 10 years or more.

*What’s being done*

In response, city and county officials have teamed up with nonprofits
such as Catholic Charities to tackle the problem head-on.

They opened a Santa Rosa Avenue hotel to homeless veterans earlier this
year, adding about 100 beds to existing shelters housing about 1,000 people.

Teams of social workers have fanned out, offering services and putting
people on waiting lists for temporary housing. Santa Rosa this year
doubled its annual spending on homelessness programs to $1.6 million and
is planning construction of thousands of affordable housing units in the
next five years.

At its July 19 meeting, the council will vote on emergency provisions
that could loosen camping restrictions in cars and on private and public
lands, including some city parks. Also on the agenda, council members
will discuss placing a bond on the November ballot that could raise up
to $100 million to be spent on housing the homeless.

Most Popular Stories
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6310477-181/first-lady-michelle-obama-honors>

Santa Rosa teen, tribal youth program honored at White House
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6310477-181/first-lady-michelle-obama-honors?ref=most>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6310562-181/cotati-mother-talks-about-her>

Slain Cotati man's family seeks answers
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6310562-181/cotati-mother-talks-about-her?ref=most>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315150-181/one-suspect-jailed-in-killing>

1 jailed in pot farmer's killing
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315150-181/one-suspect-jailed-in-killing?ref=most>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6310530-181/father-of-slain-laytonville-pot>

Father of slain Laytonville pot grower said son was ‘peaceful, kind man’
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6310530-181/father-of-slain-laytonville-pot?ref=most>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6311476-181/get-into-116-california-state>

Get into California state parks for free on 'Green Friday'
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6311476-181/get-into-116-california-state?ref=most>


A poll conducted earlier this year showed strong support for such a
measure, City Councilwoman Julie Combs said.

“The city has a lot of needs and not enough money for them all,” said
Combs, a member of the council’s subcommittee on homelessness. “We’re
aware this is a need, and we’ve made it a priority.”

Sonoma County isn’t alone in grappling with the problem. More than
116,000 people statewide are said to be homeless, with about 60 percent
living outdoors. Officials in urban areas such as Los Angeles are
reporting double-digit increases in homelessness with an expectation the
worst is yet to come.

Lawmakers this month came up with a sweeping proposal to spend $2
billion for construction of permanent housing for the state’s poorest
residents. Another $200 million may be allocated for housing subsidies.

In Sonoma County, the problem comes amid a housing shortage that is
driving up rents and creating waiting lists to get into temporary
housing. At Catholic Charities’ Samuel L. Jones Hall, the county’s
largest adult shelter, the wait is almost a month as people stay longer
to look for permanent dwellings.

“We didn’t have waiting lists four years ago,” said Jennielynn Holmes,
Catholic Charities’ director of shelter and housing. “We can’t get
people into housing like we used to.”

Related Stories
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/5772604-181/santa-rosas-thousands-of-homeless>

Homeless camp life in Santa Rosa: free and filthy
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/5772604-181/santa-rosas-thousands-of-homeless?ref=related>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/5707806-181/homeless-camps-cleared-along-petaluma>

8 homeless camps cleared along Petaluma River
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/5707806-181/homeless-camps-cleared-along-petaluma?ref=related>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/5759345-181/california-nears-2-billion-plan>

California nears $2 billion plan to house its homeless
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/5759345-181/california-nears-2-billion-plan?ref=related>


Advocates pin their hopes in part on increased rental subsidies allowing
homeless people to move into regular housing. Last year, nearly 600
people in the county got off the streets that way, Holmes said.

“That’s how we’re going to loosen up this bottleneck,” Holmes said.

But it’s unclear if that will work with vacancy rates around 1 percent.

*Daily needs met*

Many homeless are drawn to downtown Santa Rosa for free meals and other
services from nonprofits near the freeway.

Catholic Charities’ Morgan Street drop-in center is a hub of early
morning activity as people line up for breakfast snacks, showers or to
check mail. They roll up on bicycles, lugging clothes in plastic garbage
bags, and chat on cellphones or bum cigarettes as they wait their turns.

Badolato, who arrived late in her Nissan, sat at a table out front,
smoking a small cigar, when her name was called to take a shower.

“Can I have two towels?” she asked a volunteer, who also provided soap
and shampoo. “I waited so long.”

At 11:30 a.m., a crowd grows a few blocks away in front of St. Vincent
de Paul’s Wilson Street kitchen where up to 200 free lunches are served,
seven days a week. The menu varies from Chinese food to spaghetti, and
people are allowed seconds or thirds if it is available.

It’s a noisy scene that moves into the West Seventh Street neighborhood,
where people smoke or talk about job prospects before disbanding after
the kitchen closes at 12:30 p.m.

“It’s always a good spread here,” said John “Jeff” Rountree, 62, after
chowing down on the Monday special — burritos. “The price is right.”

Dinners are available from 7 to 7:30 p.m. a block away at the Redwood
Gospel Mission, which also has a temporary shelter.

On weekends, two churches on Mendocino Avenue serve breakfast on
alternate days and other meals can be had at the Living Room women’s
facility on Cleveland Avenue.

Recent Columns
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=chrissmith>
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315335-181/smith-late-nights-are-little>
*Smith:* Late nights are little trouble for this ‘Music Man’ duo
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315335-181/smith-late-nights-are-little>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=kerrybenefield>
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sports/6311047-181/benefield-santa-rosa-windsor-prepare>
*Benefield:* Santa Rosa, Windsor prepare for NCS rematch
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sports/6311047-181/benefield-santa-rosa-windsor-prepare>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=lowellcohn>
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sports/lowellcohn/6306081-181/lowell-cohn-its-fantastic-49ers>
*Lowell Cohn:* It's fantastic: 49ers have hope vs. Patriots
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sports/6306081-181/lowell-cohn-its-fantastic-49ers>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=petegolis>
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/6292785-181/golis-making-good-on-the>
*Golis:* Making good on the promise of more housing
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/6292785-181/golis-making-good-on-the>
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/category/?t=paulgullixson>
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/6270626-181/gullixson-dont-be-too-surprised>
*Gullixson:* Don’t be too surprised if … Trump wins
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/6270626-181/gullixson-dont-be-too-surprised>


“There’s no reason for anyone to go hungry,” said a gap-toothed homeless
woman at the Morgan Street center who identified herself as Needa
Nickel, 62. “If you have to be homeless, this is the place.”

Between meals, many kick back in parks or along creek beds strewn with
cardboard. Others beg for loose change outside stores on bustling Fourth
Street.

Thomas Kirkpatrick, just in from San Francisco, plopped down in front of
Treehorn Books to try a gimmick he said served him well in the big city.

He placed five plastic cups on the sidewalk, each labeled with items he
wanted — food, beer, LSD, THC and sex. In theory, generous passers-by
will be tickled by the shtick and give more.

“LSD makes the most,” said the 48-year-old man, squinting into the
morning sun. “Food makes the least.”

But the cups remained empty by midmorning as pedestrians filed by,
mostly trying to avoid eye contact.

Kirkpatrick said he was on his way to his native Oregon when he stopped
in Santa Rosa for the night. He was surprised to get into the Redwood
Gospel Mission shelter so fast and took advantage of a free breakfast
the next morning.

“San Francisco is too crowded. I needed to get out of that place,” he
said. “It’s less congested here. You actually feel you’re going to get
the things you need.”

A few doors down, bar owner John Ryan was shaking his head at the
proliferation of transients he said has “overrun” downtown. They dump
his trash cans into the street searching for returnable bottles,
defecate in doorways and yell at him when he won’t give them money.

Ryan, the owner of Sweet Spot Pub and Grill, said it’s the worst he has
seen in his 12 years in business. He called on police to step up bike
and foot patrols in the downtown area and reopen a substation a block away.

“Life is tough. I don’t know what the answers are,” Ryan said. “Maybe
build a camp outside of town.”

*Homeless after dark*

Police say things can get dicey after dark. Those who can’t get into
shelters or don’t want to stay up late, congregate on sidewalks or walk
all night to stay warm. Many are secretive about where they lay their
heads while others flop down beneath overpasses, their bundled bodies
lying in plain view.

Drinking or mental illness fuel frequent fights. Disturbances keep other
homeless people awake.

After a restless few hours under the Sixth Street overpass, a homeless
woman who gave only her first name, Julie, crawled out of the dust and
dirt, packed her belongings onto her bicycle trailer and headed to
Morgan Street to get a bite to eat.

She said neighbors bickered all night, their deranged shouts mingling
with the din of freeway traffic.

“The crazies started fighting with each other about midnight,” said the
40-year-old Santa Rosa native, who recently lost her job at Taco Bell.
“It wouldn’t have been so bad if they would just shut up.”

Another homeless man, Tony Oerding-Pierce, 36, said he felt lucky to
finally be in Catholic Charities’ family shelter on A Street.

He and his wife, Nicole Sweeney, along with their 16-month-old son,
Chays, couch-surfed for more than a month while waiting for an opening.
They were on the verge of sleeping in a rented storage facility when
they got the call.

Over a free chicken and rice lunch at the nearby St. Vincent de Paul
kitchen, the former Montgomery High School student talked about applying
for cooking jobs in the hopes of someday being able to afford his own
apartment.

“This is a minor hiccup,” he said as Sweeney fed their son a piece of
chicken. “Once we get on our feet, we’ll get going. We are highly
motivated.”

But breaking the cycle is difficult. About 10 percent of the homeless
population are not ready for services, advocates said.

Daniel Maldonado, 56, who is disabled, simply can’t afford to stay in a
home. Maldonado, on his second, six-month stay at Sam Jones Hall, said
he would return to the downtown streets when his time was up this week.

“I’m dreading it,” he said as he lay on a bed in the air-conditioned
dormitory. “It’s all right here.”

For Badolato, her 17-year-old Nissan is everything. After a string of
bad luck, her dad kicked her out of his house after Thanksgiving and she
can’t make enough in her $11.85-an-hour job to afford her own place.

So she lives with her adult son, Shebry Franklin III, in their red
sedan, parking mostly outside a Starbucks to take advantage of free
Wi-Fi and to use the bathroom, she said.

“He does all the driving,” Badolato said. “I sleep in the passenger
seat. The trunk is filled with our clothes.”

You can reach Staff Writer Paul Payne at 568-5312 or
paul.payne@pressdemocrat.com. On Twitter @ppayne.

Sponsored Contenton Press Democrat
Providing veterans with a powerful path to a promising career
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sponsored2?prx_t=MnICA0WQKArbcMA&ntv_fr>
Providing veterans with a powerful path to a promising career
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sponsored2?prx_t=MnICA0WQKArbcMA&ntv_fr>
By Tony Earley, Chairman & CEO, PG&E Corporation
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sponsored2?prx_t=MnICA0WQKArbcMA&ntv_fr>

When heavy equipment operator Erick Varela answered his country’s call
to serve with the U.S. Army’s 82 nd Airborne Division in Iraq, he had
ample reason to think he was risking his life – but not...

Most Popular Stories
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6310477-181/first-lady-michelle-obama-honors>

Santa Rosa teen, tribal youth program honored at White House
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6310477-181/first-lady-michelle-obama-honors?ref=most>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6310562-181/cotati-mother-talks-about-her>

Slain Cotati man's family seeks answers
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6310562-181/cotati-mother-talks-about-her?ref=most>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315150-181/one-suspect-jailed-in-killing>

1 jailed in pot farmer's killing
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315150-181/one-suspect-jailed-in-killing?ref=most>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6310530-181/father-of-slain-laytonville-pot>

Father of slain Laytonville pot grower said son was ‘peaceful, kind man’
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6310530-181/father-of-slain-laytonville-pot?ref=most>


<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315086-181/two-teens-arrested-in-santa>
2 arrested in SRHS theater vandalism
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6315086-181/two-teens-arrested-in-santa?ref=most>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6311476-181/get-into-116-california-state>

Get into California state parks for free on 'Green Friday'
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6311476-181/get-into-116-california-state?ref=most>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6114766-181/sonoma-county-schools-dodge-nationwide>

Teacher shortage? Not in Sonoma County
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6114766-181/sonoma-county-schools-dodge-nationwide?ref=most>

<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6297398-181/sonoma-county-supervisors-ok-controversial>

Supervisors OK controversial Bennett Valley winery
<http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/6297398-181/sonoma-county-supervisors-ok-controversial?ref=most>


<javascript:showDisqus2016()>
  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
by Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Sponsored Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
You May Like
ZM
<http://www.zimbio.com/Perfectly+Timed+Photos+Taken+Just+Before+Disaster+Strikes?utm_source=tabo&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=Tabo-ZM-US-Desktop-Specials-Photos-Before-Disasters&utm_content=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_term=http%3A%2F%2Fwww4.pictures.zimbio.com%2Fmp%2FGQvX4wIolilx.jpg}&utm_term=http%3A%2F%2Fwww4.pictures.zimbio.com%2Fmp%2FGQvX4wIolilx.jpg_Perfectly+Timed+Photos+Taken+Just+Before+Disaster+Strikes>Perfectly
Timed Photos Taken Just Before Disaster StrikesZM
<http://www.zimbio.com/Perfectly+Timed+Photos+Taken+Just+Before+Disaster+Strikes?utm_source=tabo&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=Tabo-ZM-US-Desktop-Specials-Photos-Before-Disasters&utm_content=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_term=http%3A%2F%2Fwww4.pictures.zimbio.com%2Fmp%2FGQvX4wIolilx.jpg}&utm_term=http%3A%2F%2Fwww4.pictures.zimbio.com%2Fmp%2FGQvX4wIolilx.jpg_Perfectly+Timed+Photos+Taken+Just+Before+Disaster+Strikes>
Undo
Soldiers: Free Online Game
<https://plarium.com/play/en/soldiers/top_g?adCampaign=90163&adPixel=taboola_fr&publisherID=nytrng-pressdemocrat>Join
Over 14 Million Players and Become a Master of StrategySoldiers: Free
Online Game
<https://plarium.com/play/en/soldiers/top_g?adCampaign=90163&adPixel=taboola_fr&publisherID=nytrng-pressdemocrat>
Undo
Lower My Bills
<https://www.lowermybills.com/lending/home-refinance/index.loan?sourceid=lmb-43857-83105&moid=147627&providerId=9628390&pkey1=nytrng-pressdemocrat&pkey2=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F2127352fefaa745fce6c5d115cef92eb.jpg&pkey3=Congress+Gives+Homeowners+Who+Owe+Less+Than+%24625k+A+Once-In-A-Lifetime+Mortgage+Bailout>Congress
Gives Homeowners Who Owe Less Than $625k A Once-In-A-Li…Lower My Bills
<https://www.lowermybills.com/lending/home-refinance/index.loan?sourceid=lmb-43857-83105&moid=147627&providerId=9628390&pkey1=nytrng-pressdemocrat&pkey2=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F2127352fefaa745fce6c5d115cef92eb.jpg&pkey3=Congress+Gives+Homeowners+Who+Owe+Less+Than+%24625k+A+Once-In-A-Lifetime+Mortgage+Bailout>
Undo
Cyber-Breeze
<http://cyber-breeze.com/this-1000-year-old-myth-turned-out-to-be-more-than-a-legend/?utm_adid=2f67c5&utm_source=Taboola&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=Tab-1000-Year-Myth&utm_term=nytrng-pressdemocrat>Ancient
Mystery Pulled From Ocean, But When They Look InsideCyber-Breeze
<http://cyber-breeze.com/this-1000-year-old-myth-turned-out-to-be-more-than-a-legend/?utm_adid=2f67c5&utm_source=Taboola&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=Tab-1000-Year-Myth&utm_term=nytrng-pressdemocrat>
Undo
StartClass.com
<http://colleges.startclass.com/stories/5256/colleges-biggest-decrease-applications?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=content.rec&utm_campaign=ao.cr.tb.dt.5256>Nobody
Wants to Go to These 21 Colleges AnymoreStartClass.com
<http://colleges.startclass.com/stories/5256/colleges-biggest-decrease-applications?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=content.rec&utm_campaign=ao.cr.tb.dt.5256>
Undo
Vital Reds Supplement
<http://gundrymd.com/cmd.php?ad=801094&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>How
To Fix Your Fatigue (Do This Every Day)Vital Reds Supplement
<http://gundrymd.com/cmd.php?ad=801094&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>
Undo
LendingTree Mortgage Quotes
<https://www.lendingtree.com/info/federal-va-benefits-save-veterans-thousands-a-year-on-mortgages?esourceid=6208386&cchannel=content&csource=taboola&ccontent=VARefiDesktop2&cname=The+amazing+VA+benefits+not+enough+vets+are+claiming&siteid=https%3A%2F%2Fconsole.brax-cdn.com%2Fcreatives%2Ff25520c4-b711-4f56-a1a9-22b945a61464%2Fvaapplication_a056c96f61a2c076c1b3f36105333321.jpg&cterm=nytrng-pressdemocrat>The
amazing VA benefits not enough vets are claimingLendingTree Mortgage
Quotes
<https://www.lendingtree.com/info/federal-va-benefits-save-veterans-thousands-a-year-on-mortgages?esourceid=6208386&cchannel=content&csource=taboola&ccontent=VARefiDesktop2&cname=The+amazing+VA+benefits+not+enough+vets+are+claiming&siteid=https%3A%2F%2Fconsole.brax-cdn.com%2Fcreatives%2Ff25520c4-b711-4f56-a1a9-22b945a61464%2Fvaapplication_a056c96f61a2c076c1b3f36105333321.jpg&cterm=nytrng-pressdemocrat>
Undo
Worldlifestyle
<http://www.worldlifestyle.com/trending/things-you-dont-know-about-donald-trumps-kids-2dv?utm_source=Taboola&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=DV_TrumpKids_DT&utm_content=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F53b810f61a68fca6bd43dd0d0ddbc953.jpg&utm_term=nytrng-pressdemocrat>Ever
Wonder Why Donald Trump Never Talks About His Daughter Tiffany?
Her…Worldlifestyle
<http://www.worldlifestyle.com/trending/things-you-dont-know-about-donald-trumps-kids-2dv?utm_source=Taboola&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=DV_TrumpKids_DT&utm_content=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F53b810f61a68fca6bd43dd0d0ddbc953.jpg&utm_term=nytrng-pressdemocrat>
Undo
Sponsored Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=hybrid-text-links-b:Below%20Article%20Text%20Links:>Sponsored
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=hybrid-text-links-b:Below%20Article%20Text%20Links:>
Promoted Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=hybrid-text-links-b:Below%20Article%20Text%20Links:>Promoted
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=hybrid-text-links-b:Below%20Article%20Text%20Links:>
From The WebYou May Also Like
Donald Trump's wealth will make your knees buckle (33 photos) (Filthy Rich Stars)(Filthy Rich Stars)

<http://filthyrichstar.com/2016/03/donald-trump-the-filthiest-and-richest-star-so-far/?utm_source=Taboola&utm_medium=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_content=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F5d1bf560b4460aff0f76bf34f138642b.jpg&utm_term=Donald+Trump%27s+wealth+will+make+your+knees+buckle+%2833+photos%29>
When You Realize What These Holes Are For? Wow (Head Cramp)(Head Cramp)

<http://headcramp.com/pool-diy-deck/?as=2020010101099&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral&utm_term=nytrng-pressdemocrat>
20 Smartest Celebrities In Hollywood (Coupon Connections)(Coupon Connections)

<http://couponconnections.com/celebs-with-high-iq/?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=celebIQ>
Watch: The New Grocery Store Alternative is Here! (Home Chef)(Home Chef)

<https://www.homechef.com/skip-the-store?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=cpc_clicks&utm_campaign=tab.30.1&voucher=TB30FREE&utm_content=Watch%3A+The+New+Grocery+Store+Alternative+is+Here%21-http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F8bd9b7be180182b935c248ce3804af5c.png&utm_term=nytrng-pressdemocrat>
You might have mono if you suffer from these symptoms (Healthypanda.net)(Healthypanda.net)

<http://healthypanda.net/mono-10-signs-symptoms-know/?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral&utm_term=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_campaign=mono&utm_content=You+might+have+mono+if+you+suffer+from+these+symptoms>
Here Are The Only Credit Cards You Need To Have (YourCreditCardsMatters.com)(YourCreditCardsMatters.com)

<http://comparecreditcards.online/news/?utm_campaign=us-ccc-bp-web&utm_source=taboola&utm_content=baseline2&adgroup=native&utm_term=nytrng-pressdemocrat>
Pt. 1 Woolsey debates opponents Judd and Ruyle

<http://video.pressdemocrat.com/video/614691610001>
  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=hybrid-text-links-b:Below%20Article%20Text%20Links:>  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=hybrid-text-links-b:Below%20Article%20Text%20Links:>
by Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=hybrid-text-links-b:Below%20Article%20Text%20Links:>by
Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=nytrng-pressdemocrat&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=hybrid-text-links-b:Below%20Article%20Text%20Links:>

  * News <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/>
  * Opinion <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/>
  * Sports <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/sports/>
  * Entertainment <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/entertainment/>
  * Wine Country Life <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/lifestyle/>
  * Business <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/business/>
  * Find Events <http://events.pressdemocrat.com/>
  * Archives <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/archives>

Find it Fast

  * Obituaries <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/obits/>
  * Columnists <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/columnists/>
  * Dining Out <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/lifestyle/dining/>
  * Events Calendar <http://events.pressdemocrat.com/>
  * Real Estate <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/business/realestate/>
  * Cars <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/business/cars/>
  * Unions <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/topics/?t=pd-unions>
  * Food & Recipes <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/lifestyle/food/>
  * Local Headlines <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/>
  * Santa Rosa News <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/>
  * Towns <http://towns.pressdemocrat.com/>

Other Sections

  * Letters to the Editor <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/letters/>
  * Public/Legal Notices <http://www.capublicnotice.com/>
  * Weather <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/weather/>
  * Arrest Reports <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/arrest/>
  * This Week's Headlines <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/>
  * Editorials <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/editorials/>
  * BiteClub <http://www.biteclubeats.com/>
  * High School Sports <http://www.pdpreps.com/>
  * Scores <http://pressdemocrat.stats.com/>
  * Blogs <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news/blogs/>

Contact + Help

  * Contact Us <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/contactus>
  * Advertising <http://www.pdmediasource.com/>
  * Corrections <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/corrections>
  * Letters to the Editor <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/opinion/letters/>
  * About Us <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/about>
  * Special Sections/Magazines
    <http://santarosapressdemocrat.ca.newsmemory.com/ssindex.php>
  * Staff Directory <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/staff-directory/>
  * Data Center <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/datacenter/>
  * Purchase Photos
    <https://store.pressdemocrat.com/pages/press-democrat-reprints>
  * FAQ <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/faq>
  * Classified Ads <http://classifieds.pressdemocrat.com/>

Subscribers

  * Manage Home Delivery <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx>
  * Subscribe <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx>
  * e-Edition
    <https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx?SentFromUrl=eEdition>
  * RSS Feeds
    <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/multimedia/2013908-181/rss-feeds>
  * News in Education <http://www.pressdemocrat.com/news-in-education>

<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx>
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/LinkAnExistingSubscription.aspx>
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx>
<javascript:showArticle();>
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Login.aspx>
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/LinkAnExistingSubscription.aspx>
<https://dpw1.pressdemocrat.com/Subscribe.aspx>
<javascript:showArticle();>
