Menu <#> TechCrunch

<https://techcrunch.com/> Search <#> <#>
Search TechCrunch Search TechCrunch
Search

Search

  * Follow Us
  * Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/techcrunch>
  * Instagram <https://instagram.com/techcrunch>
  * Twitter <https://twitter.com/techcrunch>
  * Youtube <http://www.youtube.com/user/techcrunch>
  * Flipboard <https://flipboard.com/@techcrunch>
  * LinkedIn <http://www.linkedin.com/company/techcrunch>
  * Google+ <https://plus.google.com/+TechCrunch>
  * RSS <https://techcrunch.com/rssfeeds/>
  * More <#>
      o Youtube <http://www.youtube.com/user/techcrunch>
      o Flipboard <https://flipboard.com/@techcrunch>
      o LinkedIn <http://www.linkedin.com/company/techcrunch>
      o Google+ <https://plus.google.com/+TechCrunch>
      o RSS <https://techcrunch.com/rssfeeds/>

Got a tip? Let us know.

<https://techcrunch.com/got-a-tip/>

  * News

    <https://techcrunch.com/>
      o Channels
          + Startups

            <https://techcrunch.com/startups/>
          + Mobile

            <https://techcrunch.com/mobile/>
          + Gadgets

            <https://techcrunch.com/gadgets/>
          + Enterprise

            <https://techcrunch.com/enterprise/>
          + Social

            <https://techcrunch.com/social/>
          + Europe

            <https://techcrunch.com/europe/>
          + Asia

            <https://techcrunch.com/asia>
          + Crunch Network

            <https://techcrunch.com/crunch-network/>
          + Unicorn Leaderboard

            <https://techcrunch.com/unicorn-leaderboard/>
          + Gift Guides

            <https://techcrunch.com/gifts/>
    All Topics

    <https://techcrunch.com/topic/> All Galleries

    <https://techcrunch.com/gallery/> All Timelines

    <https://techcrunch.com/timeline/>
  * Video

    <https://techcrunch.com/video/>
    Shows
          + Apps

            <https://techcrunch.com/video/apps/>
          + News

            <https://techcrunch.com/video/tctv-news/>
          + Crunch Report

            <https://techcrunch.com/video/crunchreport/>
          + Disrupt SF 2016

            <https://techcrunch.com/events/disrupt-sf-2016/video/>
          + Gadgets

            <https://techcrunch.com/video/gadgets/>
          + Reviews

            <https://techcrunch.com/video/reviews/>
          + Interviews

            <https://techcrunch.com/video/interviews/>
          + TC Features

            <https://techcrunch.com/video/features/>
    All Shows

    <https://techcrunch.com/video/>
    All Videos

    <https://techcrunch.com/video/all/>
  * Events

    <https://techcrunch.com/events/>
      o TechCrunch Events
          + Disrupt

            <https://techcrunch.com/event-type/disrupt/>
          + Startup Battlefield

            <https://techcrunch.com/startup-battlefield/>
          + Crunchies

            <https://techcrunch.com/event-type/crunchies/>
          + Meetups

            <https://techcrunch.com/event-type/meetups/>
          + International City Events

            <https://techcrunch.com/event-type/international-city/>
          + Hackathon

            <https://techcrunch.com/event-type/hackathon-2/>
          + Include

            <https://techcrunch.com/events/include>
          + NFL’s 1ST and Future

            <https://techcrunch.com/event-info/1st-and-future>
          + TechCrunch Store

            <http://www.techcrunchstore.com/>
      o News About
          + Mobile World Congress

            <https://techcrunch.com/events/mobile-world-congress-2016/>
          + CES

            <https://techcrunch.com/events/ces-2016/>
    All Events

    <https://techcrunch.com/events/>
  * Crunchbase

    <https://www.crunchbase.com/>

  * Trending //
  * Tesla

    <https://techcrunch.com/tag/tesla/>
  * Google

    <https://techcrunch.com/topic/company/google/>
  * Facebook

    <https://techcrunch.com/topic/company/facebook/>

  * News

    <https://techcrunch.com/>
  * Startups

    <https://techcrunch.com/startups/>
  * Mobile

    <https://techcrunch.com/mobile/>
  * Gadgets

    <https://techcrunch.com/gadgets/>
  * Enterprise

    <https://techcrunch.com/enterprise/>
  * Social

    <https://techcrunch.com/social/>
  * Europe

    <https://techcrunch.com/europe/>

Message Us

×


			
			
			
		


    Hi!

You are about to activate our Facebook Messenger news bot. Once
subscribed, the bot will send you a digest of trending stories once a
day. You can also customize the types of stories it sends you.

Click on the button below to subscribe and wait for a new Facebook
message from the TC Messenger news bot.

Thanks,
TC Team

Disrupt LondonCo-founder Of DeepMind, Mustafa Suleyman, To Speak At
Disrupt London Save £250 On Tickets Now
<http://www.techcrunch.com/event-info/disrupt-london-2016#tickets>
Startups <https://techcrunch.com/startups/>

  *
    “Anti-smartphone” Light Phone runs into delays


          “Anti-smartphone” Light Phone runs into delays

    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/light-phone-delays/>
  *
    AMC Networks backs Funny or Die


          AMC Networks backs Funny or Die

    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/amc-networks-backs-funny-or-die/>
  *
    AI-powered virtual assistant, Mezi, pivots to focus on travel


          AI-powered virtual assistant, Mezi, pivots to focus on travel

    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/ai-powered-virtual-assistant-mezi-pivots-to-focus-on-travel/>

  *


          Browse more...

    <https://techcrunch.com/startups/>

Twitter <https://techcrunch.com/topic/company/twitter/>

  *
    Snapchat has reportedly filed confidentially for its massive IPO


          Snapchat has reportedly filed confidentially for its massive IPO

    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/snapchat-has-reportedly-filed-confidentially-for-its-massive-ipo/>

  *
    FBI will receive ‘limited’ Twitter firehose access through Dataminr,
    but has to watch its step


          FBI will receive ‘limited’ Twitter firehose access through
          Dataminr, but has to watch its step

    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/fbi-will-receive-limited-twitter-firehose-access-through-dataminr-but-has-to-watch-its-step/>

  *
    Twitter updates its abuse policy and adds muting and reporting tools
    to combat trolls


          Twitter updates its abuse policy and adds muting and reporting
          tools to combat trolls

    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/twitter-updates-abuse-policy/>
  *


          Browse more...

    <https://techcrunch.com/topic/company/twitter/>

Seattle <https://techcrunch.com/tag/seattle/>

  *
    Zenoti raises $15 million for spa bookings


          Zenoti raises $15 million for spa bookings

    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/08/11/zenoti-raises-15-million-for-spa-bookings/>

  *
    ReachNow expands BMW car sharing to Portland


          ReachNow expands BMW car sharing to Portland

    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/08/03/reachnow-expands-bmw-car-sharing-to-portland/>

  *
    Amazon shatters earnings expectations


          Amazon shatters earnings expectations

    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/07/28/amazon-shatters-earnings-expectations/>

  *


          Browse more...

    <https://techcrunch.com/tag/seattle/>

San Francisco <https://techcrunch.com/tag/san-francisco/>

  *
    Rothenberg Ventures could face fines over setting up its office in a
    building zoned for residential use


          Rothenberg Ventures could face fines over setting up its
          office in a building zoned for residential use

    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/10/17/rothenberg-ventures-could-face-fines-over-setting-up-its-office-in-a-building-zoned-for-residential-use/>

  *
    GM’s car sharing company Maven hits the streets of San Francisco


          GM’s car sharing company Maven hits the streets of San Francisco

    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/10/13/gms-one-way-ride-startup-maven-hits-the-streets-of-san-francisco/>

  *
    Billionaire tech investors support divisive plan to ban San
    Francisco’s homeless camps


          Billionaire tech investors support divisive plan to ban San
          Francisco’s homeless camps

    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/10/12/billionaire-tech-investors-support-divisive-plan-to-ban-san-franciscos-homeless-camps/>

  *


          Browse more...

    <https://techcrunch.com/tag/san-francisco/>

homelessness <https://techcrunch.com/tag/homelessness/>

  *
    Billionaire tech investors support divisive plan to ban San
    Francisco’s homeless camps


          Billionaire tech investors support divisive plan to ban San
          Francisco’s homeless camps

    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/10/12/billionaire-tech-investors-support-divisive-plan-to-ban-san-franciscos-homeless-camps/>

  *
    The Other Justin Keller Schools Tech Bro With Same Name On
    Homelessness In SF


          The Other Justin Keller Schools Tech Bro With Same Name On
          Homelessness In SF

    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/02/19/the-other-justin-keller-schools-tech-bro-on-homelessness-in-sf/>

  *
    Housing Activists Swarm Airbnb On Day Before The Vote On Prop F


          Housing Activists Swarm Airbnb On Day Before The Vote On Prop F

    <https://techcrunch.com/2015/11/02/housing-activists-swarm-airbnb-on-day-before-the-vote-on-prop-f/>

  *


          Browse more...

    <https://techcrunch.com/tag/homelessness/>

Crunch Network


  Resolving homelessness in the digital era 

Posted Jun 21, 2016 by Jonathan Sposato
<https://techcrunch.com/contributor/jonathan-sposato/>

  *


    0


    SHARES
  *

    <#comments>
  *

    <#>
  *

    <http://twitter.com/share?via=techcrunch&url=http://tcrn.ch/28LWVwH&text=Resolving%20homelessness%20in%20the%20digital%20era%C2%A0>

  *

    <https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https%3A%2F%2Ftechcrunch.com%2F2016%2F06%2F21%2Fresolving-homelessness-in-the-digital-era%2F&title=Resolving%20homelessness%20in%20the%20digital%20era%C2%A0>

  *

    <https://plus.google.com/share?url=https://techcrunch.com/2016/06/21/resolving-homelessness-in-the-digital-era/>

  *

    <http://www.reddit.com/submit?url=https://techcrunch.com/2016/06/21/resolving-homelessness-in-the-digital-era/&title=Resolving%20homelessness%20in%20the%20digital%20era%C2%A0>

  *

    <http://www.stumbleupon.com/badge/?url=https://techcrunch.com/2016/06/21/resolving-homelessness-in-the-digital-era/>

  *

    <mailto:?subject=Resolving%20homelessness%20in%20the%20digital%20era%C2%A0&body=Article:%20https://techcrunch.com/2016/06/21/resolving-homelessness-in-the-digital-era/>

  *

    <https://share.flipboard.com/bookmarklet/popout?v=2&title=Resolving%20homelessness%20in%20the%20digital%20era%C2%A0&url=https://techcrunch.com/2016/06/21/resolving-homelessness-in-the-digital-era/>


<https://share.flipboard.com/bookmarklet/popout?v=2&title=Resolving%20homelessness%20in%20the%20digital%20era%C2%A0&url=https://techcrunch.com/2016/06/21/resolving-homelessness-in-the-digital-era/>
<http://www.stumbleupon.com/badge/?url=https://techcrunch.com/2016/06/21/resolving-homelessness-in-the-digital-era/>
<http://www.reddit.com/submit?url=https://techcrunch.com/2016/06/21/resolving-homelessness-in-the-digital-era/&title=Resolving%20homelessness%20in%20the%20digital%20era%C2%A0>
<mailto:?subject=Resolving%20homelessness%20in%20the%20digital%20era%C2%A0&body=Article:%20https://techcrunch.com/2016/06/21/resolving-homelessness-in-the-digital-era/>

<#>
<http://twitter.com/share?via=techcrunch&url=http://tcrn.ch/28LWVwH&text=Resolving%20homelessness%20in%20the%20digital%20era%C2%A0>
<https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://techcrunch.com/2016/06/21/resolving-homelessness-in-the-digital-era/>
<whatsapp://send?text=Resolving%20homelessness%20in%20the%20digital%20era%C2%A0%20%7C%20https%3A%2F%2Ftechcrunch.com%2F2016%2F06%2F21%2Fresolving-homelessness-in-the-digital-era%2F>
<mailto:?subject=Resolving%20homelessness%20in%20the%20digital%20era%C2%A0&body=Article:%20https://techcrunch.com/2016/06/21/resolving-homelessness-in-the-digital-era/>

Next Story


        An excerpt from Eliot Peper’s cyberpunk novel Cumulus

<https://techcrunch.com/2016/06/21/an-excerpt-from-eliot-pepers-cyberpunk-novel-cumulus/>


Jonathan Sposato Crunch Network Contributor

Jonathan Sposato is a co-founder of WeCount
<https://www.wecount.org/Account/Login>.

How to join the network
<https://techcrunch.com/tc-network-submission-guidelines/>

The explosion of tech companies setting up headquarters in major
cities has encroached on the homeless population, but the mentalities
around this issue differ. Twitter established its headquarters
<https://blog.twitter.com/2015/our-commitment-to-san-francisco> in the
Tenderloin district, a highly underdeveloped area of San Francisco, in
an attempt to help rejuvenate the community. More recently however, on
the opposite spectrum, entrepreneur Justin Keller
<http://www.businessinsider.com/justin-keller-decries-san-francisco-homeless-2016-2> called
for the removal of the homeless in San Francisco, describing it as a
burden on the wealthy.

Like San Francisco, the tech industry is growing rapidly in Seattle, and
we, too, have the same dilemma — our city has the third largest homeless
population in the nation, and it’s only growing. According to the latest
One Night Count results, there are at least 4,505 unsheltered people
<http://www.homelessinfo.org/what_we_do/one_night_count/2016_results.php> in
Seattle. But unlike San Francisco, we have the opportunity to get ahead
of this issue and truly make a difference.

While we are in a tech bubble with regards to the market, I’d say we’re
also in an even smaller bubble — one that causes us to look away or
avoid interacting with the homeless, especially while we’re traveling to
and from work.

Consider this scenario — you’re racing to get to work, laptop bag in
tow, coffee in one hand and likely your phone in the other. You see a
homeless person on the street and you know you have spare change, but
that entails shifting your belongings around, reaching for your wallet
and handing out the change. Also, in the back of your mind you wonder if
they will use your money for drugs or alcohol, rather than clothing,
shelter or food.

    We’re focused on gaining assets others have, instead of helping
    others gain what we have.

The sad truth is that most of us wouldn’t disrupt our routine to help
out in this situation, even though it would only take 30 seconds. I
think it is time to reflect; “Now, how can we change this?”

What’s missing is the notion of “us.” “Us” as a community, society or
nation isn’t part of a national conversation of betterment. It’s not a
part of our daily lives. Stemming from Tocquevilleian and Jeffersonian
philosophies, we’re focused on gaining assets others have, instead of
helping others gain what we have. We’re failing to measure society by
how we treat the disadvantaged class.

However, there are a few housing initiatives already in place that we
can look to for inspiration, which leverage a company’s influence to
better the community. For example, theCommunity Pillar
<http://www.zillow.com/community-pillar/> program by Zillow works with
local landlords and property managers to modify their standard tenant
screening process to help applicants with low incomes or unemployment to
be able to obtain housing. Aggregating these options eases the search
for those individuals who are financially strapped but eager for a fresh
start. Easing the housing process through a service like Zillow is also
a key step in helping others build the right foundation to long-term
stability.


    Related Articles

TheHelpingHand.club uses Uber to direct homeless people to shelters

<https://techcrunch.com/2016/05/08/helpinghand-club-uses-uber-to-send-homeless-people-to-shelters/>
The Other Justin Keller Schools Tech Bro With Same Name On Homelessness
In SF

<https://techcrunch.com/2016/02/19/the-other-justin-keller-schools-tech-bro-on-homelessness-in-sf/>
HandUp, A Startup Combatting Homelessness, Is Setting An Example For The
Tech Industry

<https://techcrunch.com/2015/09/13/handup-homeless-outreach/>

Amazon recently partnered
<http://www.marysplaceseattle.org/blog/marys-place-and-amazon-team-up-to-transform-a-vacant-hotel-into-shelter-and-stability/>
with Mary’s Place to turn a building on campus into an emergency family
shelter until the spring of 2017. The partnership also created an Amazon
Wish List where anyone can donate to the families served by Mary’s
Place. Providing a temporary solution shows we have opportunities all
around us to capitalize on for future initiatives. Even more, combining
Amazon’s services with the families in need not only helps financially
support those in need, it creates a channel for aid through a convenient
tech service most of us already use.

As members of the Seattle tech community, we need to use our ideas,
technology and resources to help the homeless. If we pool our resources,
we can fundamentally change our interactions and involvement with the
homeless. We’ve all seen homeless individuals or families in our
community — now’s the time we begin to interact with them, not avoid them.

When I go out at night to distribute blankets or clean socks, I am told
that more than any material item, a friendly human connection that
offers someone dignity is what keeps someone from giving up. Let’s not
forget they are humans just like you and me, and they need our help now
more than ever.

Featured Image: George Rose/Getty Images

  *


    0


    SHARES
  *

    <#>
  *

    <http://twitter.com/share?via=techcrunch&url=http://tcrn.ch/28LWVwH&text=Resolving%20homelessness%20in%20the%20digital%20era%C2%A0>

  *

    <https://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=https%3A%2F%2Ftechcrunch.com%2F2016%2F06%2F21%2Fresolving-homelessness-in-the-digital-era%2F&title=Resolving%20homelessness%20in%20the%20digital%20era%C2%A0>

  *

    <https://plus.google.com/share?url=https://techcrunch.com/2016/06/21/resolving-homelessness-in-the-digital-era/>

  *

    <http://www.stumbleupon.com/badge/?url=https://techcrunch.com/2016/06/21/resolving-homelessness-in-the-digital-era/>

  *

    <http://www.reddit.com/submit?url=https://techcrunch.com/2016/06/21/resolving-homelessness-in-the-digital-era/&title=Resolving%20homelessness%20in%20the%20digital%20era%C2%A0>

  *

    <https://share.flipboard.com/bookmarklet/popout?v=2&title=Resolving%20homelessness%20in%20the%20digital%20era%C2%A0&url=https://techcrunch.com/2016/06/21/resolving-homelessness-in-the-digital-era/>

  *

    <mailto:?subject=Resolving%20homelessness%20in%20the%20digital%20era%C2%A0&body=Article:%20https://techcrunch.com/2016/06/21/resolving-homelessness-in-the-digital-era/>


  
<https://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=aol-techcrunch&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>  
<https://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=aol-techcrunch&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
by Taboola 
<https://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=aol-techcrunch&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola 
<https://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=aol-techcrunch&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Sponsored Links 
<https://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=aol-techcrunch&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links 
<https://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=aol-techcrunch&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links 
<https://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=aol-techcrunch&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links 
<https://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=aol-techcrunch&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
From the Web
Microsoft
<https://ad.atdmt.com/c/go;p=11087208774885;a=11087208780730;ev.a=1;idfa=;idfa_lat=;aaid=;aaid_lat=;cache=>Interact
With Holograms In Mixed RealityMicrosoft
<https://ad.atdmt.com/c/go;p=11087208774885;a=11087208780730;ev.a=1;idfa=;idfa_lat=;aaid=;aaid_lat=;cache=>
Undo
Navdy
<https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/trackclk/N30602.2069703TABOOLA2/B10465104.139890555;dc_trk_aid=312282167;dc_trk_cid=75491785;dc_lat=;dc_rdid=;tag_for_child_directed_treatment=?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>Watch
What it Feels like to Drive in the FutureNavdy
<https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/trackclk/N30602.2069703TABOOLA2/B10465104.139890555;dc_trk_aid=312282167;dc_trk_cid=75491785;dc_lat=;dc_rdid=;tag_for_child_directed_treatment=?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>
Undo
WSJ for KPMG
<http://partners.wsj.com/kpmg/management/six-disruptors-changing-businesses?mod=synd_taboola>Six
Technology BreakthroughsWSJ for KPMG
<http://partners.wsj.com/kpmg/management/six-disruptors-changing-businesses?mod=synd_taboola>
Undo
WorldPay
<http://info.worldpaycommunications.com/real.html?utm_source=Taboola&utm_medium=Native&utm_campaign=SMBPilotSJ&utm_term=Ret&utm_content=2B>Do
Shoppers In Store Demand The Latest Payment Technologies?WorldPay
<http://info.worldpaycommunications.com/real.html?utm_source=Taboola&utm_medium=Native&utm_campaign=SMBPilotSJ&utm_term=Ret&utm_content=2B>
Undo
Advertisement <https://techcrunch.com/advertise/>

Advertisement <https://techcrunch.com/advertise/>


      Crunchbase

  *


            Twitter <https://crunchbase.com/organization/twitter/>

      o
        *Founded

        * 2006
      o
        *Overview

        * Twitter is a global social networking platform that allows its
        users to send and read 140-character messages known as “tweets”.
        It enables registered users to read and post their tweets
        through the web, short message service (SMS), and mobile
        applications. As a global real-time communications platform,
        Twitter has more than 400 million monthly visitors and 255
        million monthly active users around …
      o
        *Location

        * San Francisco, CA
        <http://crunchbase.com/location/san-francisco/528f5e3c90d111115d1c2e4ff979d58e>

      o
        *Categories

        * SMS
        <http://crunchbase.com/category/sms/08e0a9b414d1c281daa8a228c45e5110>,
        Blogging Platforms
        <http://crunchbase.com/category/blogging-platforms/1ded70549e6d2ede57adc95e83be0c06>,
        Social Media
        <http://crunchbase.com/category/social-media/5349a2f214d89727c32a19ebea5db78c>,
        Messaging
        <http://crunchbase.com/category/messaging/8c6239bf6854494b1a16e4f7a286dbd5>

      o
        *Website

        * http://www.twitter.com/	
      o Full profile for Twitter
        <https://crunchbase.com/organization/twitter>	
  *


            Zillow <https://crunchbase.com/organization/zillow/>

      o
        *Founded

        * 2005
      o
        *Overview

        * Zillow, Inc. is a leading home and real estate marketplace
        dedicated to helping homeowners, buyers, sellers, renters, real
        estate agents, mortgage professionals, landlords, and property
        managers find and share vital information about homes, real
        estate, mortgages, and home improvement. Under the Zillow brand,
        Zillow operates Zillow.com, Zillow Mortgage Marketplace, Zillow
        Mobile, Zillow Rentals, and …
      o
        *Location

        * Seattle, WA
        <http://crunchbase.com/location/seattle/d3d408384bbbb09438656c4cf9970090>

      o
        *Categories

        * Internet
        <http://crunchbase.com/category/internet/2772a539e63609dc30dcb1a7deb98d0e>,
        Marketplace
        <http://crunchbase.com/category/marketplace/772da8fe26d7ea0900ff0fc7c8368b50>,
        Real Estate
        <http://crunchbase.com/category/real-estate/a326e225acb8f9c0abfe609a82b71965>

      o
        *Founders

        * Rich Barton <https://crunchbase.com/person/person/rich-barton>
      o
        *Website

        * http://www.zillow.com <http://www.zillow.com/>	
      o Full profile for Zillow
        <https://crunchbase.com/organization/zillow>	
  *


            Amazon <https://crunchbase.com/organization/amazon/>

      o
        *Founded

        * 1994
      o
        *Overview

        * Amazon is an e-commerce retailer formed originally to provide
        consumers with products in two segments. It offers users with
        merchandise and content purchased for resale from vendors and
        those offered by third-party sellers. Operating in North
        American and International markets, Amazon provides its services
        through websites such as amazon.com and amazon.ca. It also
        enables authors, musicians, filmmakers, …
      o
        *Location

        * Seattle, WA
        <http://crunchbase.com/location/seattle/d3d408384bbbb09438656c4cf9970090>

      o
        *Categories

        * Crowdsourcing
        <http://crunchbase.com/category/crowdsourcing/1b0319b6bf8092967c58e45f0767bbb4>,
        E-Commerce
        <http://crunchbase.com/category/e-commerce/275ddcbc27deff4f4e506dc26ebf9570>,
        Internet
        <http://crunchbase.com/category/internet/2772a539e63609dc30dcb1a7deb98d0e>,
        Delivery
        <http://crunchbase.com/category/delivery/86985333a422db8b7d51478c132bfad7>,
        Retail
        <http://crunchbase.com/category/retail/b65acba5b299399063908be3e3833a07>,
        Software
        <http://crunchbase.com/category/software/c08b5441a05b9777b7a6012728caddd9>

      o
        *Founders

        * Jeff Bezos <https://crunchbase.com/person/person/jeff-bezos>
      o
        *Website

        * http://amazon.com <http://amazon.com/>	
      o Full profile for Amazon
        <https://crunchbase.com/organization/amazon>	
  *


            Amazon Web Services
            <https://crunchbase.com/organization/amazon-web-services/>

      o
        *Founded

        * 2006
      o
        *Overview

        * Amazon Web Services provides information technology
        infrastructure services to businesses in the form of web
        services. Its products and solutions include cloud computing,
        compute, networking, storage and content delivery, databases,
        analytics, application services, deployment and management,
        mobile services, applications, AWS marketplace software,
        startups, enterprises, partners, government and education, …
      o
        *Location

        * Seattle, WA
        <http://crunchbase.com/location/seattle/d3d408384bbbb09438656c4cf9970090>

      o
        *Categories

        * Web Development
        <http://crunchbase.com/category/web-development/292d82c553819717827f3122ee792e71>,
        Software
        <http://crunchbase.com/category/software/c08b5441a05b9777b7a6012728caddd9>,
        Information Technology
        <http://crunchbase.com/category/information-technology/dbca89faf0835438b4add3fdeceb78e7>,
        Information Services
        <http://crunchbase.com/category/information-services/f579213a60af8bb3309b1d80607ad2a9>

      o
        *Website

        * http://aws.amazon.com <http://aws.amazon.com/>	
      o Full profile for Amazon Web Services
        <https://crunchbase.com/organization/amazon-web-services>	


    Newsletter Subscriptions

*The Daily Crunch* Get the top tech stories of the day delivered to your
inbox

*TC Weekly Roundup* Get a weekly recap of the biggest tech stories

*Crunchbase Daily* The latest startup funding announcements

Enter Address

Subscribe


    Latest Crunch Report	

  *
    Facebook's Fake News Problem | Crunch Report


          Facebook's Fake News Problem | Crunch Report

    <https://techcrunch.com/video/facebooks-fake-news-problem-crunch-report/582ba5a9134aa12a122ab4e9/?ncid=rightrail_cr>


Watch More Episodes//

<https://techcrunch.com/video/crunchreport/?ncid=rightrail_crmore>

  *
    Twitter

    <https://techcrunch.com/topic/company/twitter/>
  *
    Seattle

    <https://techcrunch.com/tag/seattle/>
  *
    San Francisco

    <https://techcrunch.com/tag/san-francisco/>
  *
    homelessness

    <https://techcrunch.com/tag/homelessness/>
  *
    Startups

    <https://techcrunch.com/startups/>
  *
    Popular Posts


    Featured Stories

  *
    Resolving homelessness in the digital era 	


            June Intelligent Oven Review

    VIDEO | 4:50 | Reviews
    <https://techcrunch.com/video/june-intelligent-oven-review/582a23bb134aa138a2f24715/?ncid=mobilerecirc_featured>

  *
    This is why Snapchat didn’t give Spectacles to techies	


            This is why Snapchat didn’t give Spectacles to techies

    6 hours ago | Josh Constine
    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/spectascobles/?ncid=mobilerecirc_featured>

  *
    Chinese scientists CRISPR a human for the first time	


            Chinese scientists CRISPR a human for the first time

    8 hours ago | Sarah Buhr
    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/chinese-scientists-crispr-a-human-for-the-first-time/?ncid=mobilerecirc_featured>

  *
    Snapchat has reportedly filed confidentially for its massive IPO	


            Snapchat has reportedly filed confidentially for its massive IPO

    9 hours ago | Matthew Lynley
    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/snapchat-has-reportedly-filed-confidentially-for-its-massive-ipo/?ncid=mobilerecirc_featured>

  *
    DJI’s Inspire 2 gets a second camera for first-person video feeds	


            DJI’s Inspire 2 gets a second camera for first-person
            video feeds

    11 hours ago | Brian Heater
    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/dji/?ncid=mobilerecirc_featured>


    Latest From Startups

  *
    “Anti-smartphone” Light Phone runs into delays	


            “Anti-smartphone” Light Phone runs into delays

    2 hours ago | Haje Jan Kamps
    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/light-phone-delays/?ncid=mobilerecirc_recent>

  *
    AMC Networks backs Funny or Die	


            AMC Networks backs Funny or Die

    8 hours ago | Anthony Ha
    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/amc-networks-backs-funny-or-die/?ncid=mobilerecirc_recent>

  *
    AI-powered virtual assistant, Mezi, pivots to focus on travel	


            AI-powered virtual assistant, Mezi, pivots to focus on travel

    9 hours ago | Lora Kolodny
    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/ai-powered-virtual-assistant-mezi-pivots-to-focus-on-travel/?ncid=mobilerecirc_recent>

  *
    Snapchat has reportedly filed confidentially for its massive IPO	


            Snapchat has reportedly filed confidentially for its massive IPO

    9 hours ago | Matthew Lynley
    <https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/snapchat-has-reportedly-filed-confidentially-for-its-massive-ipo/?ncid=mobilerecirc_recent>


Comment moderation powered by BrandBastion <https://www.brandbastion.com/>

Up Next


      An excerpt from Eliot Peper’s cyberpunk novel Cumulus
      <https://techcrunch.com/2016/06/21/an-excerpt-from-eliot-pepers-cyberpunk-novel-cumulus/>

Posted Jun 21, 2016


      CrunchBoard


        Job Listings

  *


          Director, Software Security @ Practice Fusion at The Sourcery
          (San Francisco, CA, United States)

    <https://www.crunchboard.com/jobs/686415-director-software-security-practice-fusion-at-the-sourcery>

  *


          Developer at CastleBranch (Wilmington, NC, United States)

    <https://www.crunchboard.com/jobs/686070-developer-at-castlebranch>
  *


          Infrastructure Engineer Tango at The Sourcery (Mountain View,
          CA, United States)

    <https://www.crunchboard.com/jobs/680873-infrastructure-engineer-tango-at-the-sourcery>

  *


          Senior Software Engineer @ Pared at The Sourcery (San
          Francisco, CA, United States)

    <https://www.crunchboard.com/jobs/680861-senior-software-engineer-pared-at-the-sourcery>

  *


          Software Engineer @ Pared at The Sourcery (San Francisco, CA,
          United States)

    <https://www.crunchboard.com/jobs/680858-software-engineer-pared-at-the-sourcery>


More from CrunchBoard <http://www.crunchboard.com/>
Advertisement <https://techcrunch.com/advertise/>


        TechCrunch

        <https://techcrunch.com/>


  * News <https://techcrunch.com/>
  * Video <https://techcrunch.com/video/>
  * Events <https://techcrunch.com/events/>
  * Crunchbase <http://www.crunchbase.com/>
  * TechCrunch Store <http://techcrunchstore.com/>


        About

  * Staff <https://techcrunch.com/about/>
  * Contact Us <https://techcrunch.com/contact/>
  * Advertise With Us <https://techcrunch.com/advertise/>
  * Send Us A Tip <https://techcrunch.com/got-a-tip/>


        International

  * China <http://techcrunch.cn/>
  * Europe <https://techcrunch.com/europe/>
  * Japan <http://jp.techcrunch.com/>


      Follow TechCrunch

  * Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/techcrunch>
  * Twitter <https://twitter.com/techcrunch>
  * Google+ <https://plus.google.com/+TechCrunch>
  * LinkedIn <http://www.linkedin.com/company/techcrunch>
  * Youtube <http://www.youtube.com/user/techcrunch>
  * Pinterest <http://pinterest.com/techcrunch/>
  * Tumblr <http://techcrunch.tumblr.com/>
  * Instagram <http://instagram.com/techcrunch>
  * StumbleUpon <http://www.stumbleupon.com/channel/techcrunch/>
  * Feed <https://techcrunch.com/rssfeeds/>


      TechCrunch Apps

  * iOS <https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/techcrunch/id526058642?mt=8>
  * Android
    <https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.aol.mobile.techcrunch>
  * Windows 8
    <http://apps.microsoft.com/windows/en-US/app/techcrunch-the-inside-story/e1127f3e-b8da-4939-9778-0a4e3a51d2d9>


      Subscribe to The Daily Crunch

Latest headlines delivered to you daily

Subscribe to <span class="no-mobile">Subscribe to </span>The Daily Crunch
Enter Email Address

Subscribe

© 2013-2016 AOL Inc. All rights reserved. Aol Tech
<http://www.aoltech.com/> Privacy Policy <http://privacy.aol.com/> About
Our Ads <http://adinfo.aol.com/about-our-ads> Anti Harassment Policy
<https://techcrunch.com/anti-harassment-policy/> Terms of Service
<http://legal.aol.com/TOS/> Powered by WordPress.com VIP
<https://vip.wordpress.com/?utm_source=vip_powered_wpcom&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=VIP%20Footer%20Credit>
Fonts by <Webtype> <http://www.webtype.com/>

  * TechCrunch <https://techcrunch.com/>

  *
        News
          + Startups

            <https://techcrunch.com/startups/>
          + Mobile

            <https://techcrunch.com/mobile/>
          + Gadgets

            <https://techcrunch.com/gadgets/>
          + Enterprise

            <https://techcrunch.com/enterprise/>
          + Social

            <https://techcrunch.com/social/>
          + Europe

            <https://techcrunch.com/europe/>
          + Asia

            <https://techcrunch.com/asia>
          + Crunch Network

            <https://techcrunch.com/crunch-network/>
          + Unicorn Leaderboard

            <https://techcrunch.com/unicorn-leaderboard/>
          + Gift Guides

            <https://techcrunch.com/gifts/>
          + All Galleries

            <https://techcrunch.com/gallery/>
          + All Timelines

            <https://techcrunch.com/timeline/>
  *
        Videos
          + Apps

            <https://techcrunch.com/video/apps/>
          + News

            <https://techcrunch.com/video/tctv-news/>
          + Crunch Report

            <https://techcrunch.com/video/crunchreport/>
          + Disrupt SF 2016

            <https://techcrunch.com/events/disrupt-sf-2016/video/>
          + All Shows

            <https://techcrunch.com/video/>
          + All Videos

            <https://techcrunch.com/video/all/>
  *
        Events
          + Disrupt

            <https://techcrunch.com/event-type/disrupt/>
          + Startup Battlefield

            <https://techcrunch.com/startup-battlefield/>
          + Crunchies

            <https://techcrunch.com/event-type/crunchies/>
          + Meetups

            <https://techcrunch.com/event-type/meetups/>
          + International City Events

            <https://techcrunch.com/event-type/international-city/>
          + Hackathon

            <https://techcrunch.com/event-type/hackathon-2/>
          + Include

            <https://techcrunch.com/events/include>
          + NFL’s 1ST and Future

            <https://techcrunch.com/event-info/1st-and-future>
          + TechCrunch Store

            <http://www.techcrunchstore.com/>
          + All Events

            <https://techcrunch.com/events/>
    Crunchbase

    <https://www.crunchbase.com/> 

Message Us <https://techcrunch.com/fb-messenger/>

*Most Popular*
This is why Snapchat didn’t give Spectacles to techies
6 hours ago by Josh Constine

<https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/spectascobles/?ncid=mobilenavtrend>
Chinese scientists CRISPR a human for the first time
8 hours ago by Sarah Buhr

<https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/chinese-scientists-crispr-a-human-for-the-first-time/?ncid=mobilenavtrend>

Happy 20th birthday, ICQ!
7 hours ago by Devin Coldewey

<https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/happy-20th-birthday-icq/?ncid=mobilenavtrend>

Snapchat has reportedly filed confidentially for its massive IPO
9 hours ago by Matthew Lynley

<https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/snapchat-has-reportedly-filed-confidentially-for-its-massive-ipo/?ncid=mobilenavtrend>

Budget US Android smartphones found secretly sending personal data to China
12 hours ago by Natasha Lomas

<https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/budget-us-android-smartphones-found-secretly-sending-personal-data-to-china/?ncid=mobilenavtrend>

WhatsApp launches video calling for everyone
yesterday by Josh Constine, Sarah Perez

<https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/14/whatsapp-video-calling/?ncid=mobilenavtrend>

Google’s AI Experiments help you understand neural networks by playing
with them
9 hours ago by Devin Coldewey

<https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/googles-ai-experiments-help-you-understand-neural-networks-by-playing-with-them/?ncid=mobilenavtrend>

“Anti-smartphone” Light Phone runs into delays
2 hours ago by Haje Jan Kamps

<https://techcrunch.com/2016/11/15/light-phone-delays/?ncid=mobilenavtrend>
:)
