<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco>
Subscribe to San Francisco Magazine
<https://online.icnfull.com/lxp/?action=SUBSCRIPTION>

  * Eat & Drink

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink>
      o Restaurants

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink/restaurants>
      o Wine & Spirits

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink/wine-and-spirits>
      o Ingredient

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink/ingredient>
      o Clubs & Bars

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink/clubs-and-bars>
  * News & Features

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features>
      o Politics

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/politics>
      o Profiles

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/profiles>
      o Reporter's Notebook

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/reporters-notebook>
      o Real Estate

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/real-estate>
      o Tech World

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/tech-world>
  * Travel

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/travel>
      o Weekend Escapes

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/travel/weekend-escapes>
      o California Destinations

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/travel/california-destinations>
      o Further Afield

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/travel/further-afield>
  * Culture

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/culture>
      o Reviews

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/culture/reviews>
      o Galleries & Performance

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/culture/galleries-and-performance>
      o Music

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/culture/music>
  * Style

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/style>
      o Fashion

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/style/fashion>
      o Shopping

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/style/shopping>
      o Beauty

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/style/beauty>
  * Home

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/home-life>
      o Architecture

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/home-life/architecture>
      o Interiors

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/home-life/interiors>
  * City Life

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/city-life>
  * Scene

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/scene>
  * Videos

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/videos>

  * Cityguide
    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-franciscos-cityguide/digital-edition>
  * Brides <http://modernluxury.com/brides-california>
  * Guide to Private Schools
    <http://modernluxury.com/bay-area-guide-to-private-schools/digital-edition>
  * Events <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/events>
  * Charity Datebook
    <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-san-francisco/digital-edition>
  * Interiors California
    <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-california/digital-edition>

San Francisco Magazine facebook
<http://www.facebook.com/SanFranciscoMagazine>
San Francisco Magazine twitter <http://twitter.com/sanfranmag>
San Francisco Magazine instagram <http://instagram.com/sfmagazine>
San Francisco Magazine apps

  * iPhone

    <http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/san-francisco-magazine/id370141813?mt=8>
  * iPad

    <http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/san-francisco-magazine-hd/id370424626?mt=8>
  * Droid

    <https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.modernluxury.sanf&feature=sear...>


    Our Publications

  * Aspen

    <http://modernluxury.com/aspen>
      o Aspen

        <http://modernluxury.com/aspen>
  * Atlanta

    <http://modernluxury.com/atlanta>
      o The Atlantan

        <http://modernluxury.com/atlanta>
      o Jezebel

        <http://modernluxury.com/jezebel>
      o Modern Luxury Brides Atlanta

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-atlanta>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Atlanta

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-atlanta>
      o Men's Book Atlanta

        <http://modernluxury.com/mens-book-atlanta>
      o Charity & Social Datebook Atlanta

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-atlanta/digital-edition>
  * Chicago

    <http://modernluxury.com/chicago>
      o CS

        <http://modernluxury.com/chicago>
      o Modern Luxury Brides Chicago

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-chicago>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Chicago

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-chicago>
      o Men's Book Chicago

        <http://modernluxury.com/mens-book-chicago>
      o NS

        <http://modernluxury.com/chicagos-north-shore>
      o Modern Luxury Brides North Shore

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-north-shore>
      o Charity and Social Datebook Chicago

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-chicago/digital-edition>
  * Dallas

    <http://modernluxury.com/dallas>
      o Modern Luxury Dallas

        <http://modernluxury.com/dallas>
      o Modern Luxury Brides Dallas

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-dallas>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Texas

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-texas>
      o Charity and Social Datebook Dallas

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-dallas/digital-edition>
  * The Hamptons

    <http://modernluxury.com/the-hamptons>
      o Beach

        <http://modernluxury.com/the-hamptons>
  * Hawai'i

    <http://modernluxury.com/hawaii>
      o Modern Luxury Hawaii

        <http://modernluxury.com/hawaii>
  * Houston

    <http://modernluxury.com/houston>
      o Houston

        <http://modernluxury.com/houston>
      o Modern Luxury Brides Houston

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-houston>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Texas

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-texas>
      o Charity and Social Datebook Houston

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-houston/digital-edition>
  * Los Angeles

    <http://modernluxury.com/angeleno>
      o Angeleno

        <http://modernluxury.com/los-angeles>
      o Modern Luxury Brides California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-california>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors California

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-california>
      o Charity and Social Datebook Los Angeles

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-los-angeles/digital-edition>
  * Miami

    <http://modernluxury.com/miami>
      o Miami

        <http://modernluxury.com/miami>
      o Modern Luxury Brides South Florida

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-south-florida>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors South Florida

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-south-florida>
  * New York

    <http://modernluxury.com/manhattan>
      o Manhattan

        <http://modernluxury.com/manhattan>
  * Orange County

    <http://modernluxury.com/orange-county>
      o Modern Luxury Orange County

        <http://modernluxury.com/orange-county>
      o Modern Luxury Brides California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-california>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors California

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-california>
      o Charity & Social Datebook Orange County

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-orange-county/digital-edition>
  * San Diego

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-diego>
      o Modern Luxury San Diego

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-diego>
      o Modern Luxury Brides California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-california>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors California

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-california>
      o Charity & Social Datebook San Diego

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-san-diego/digital-edition>
  * San Francisco

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco>
      o San Francisco

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco>
      o Modern Luxury Brides California

        <http://modernluxury.com/brides-california>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors California

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-california>
      o CityGuide

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-franciscos-cityguide/digital-edition>
      o Charity & Social Datebook San Francisco

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-san-francisco/digital-edition>
  * Scottsdale

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/scottsdale>
      o Scottsdale

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/scottsdale>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Scottsdale

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-scottsdale>
  * Silicon Valley

    <http://modernluxury.com/silicon-valley>
      o Modern Luxury Silicon Valley

        <http://modernluxury.com/silicon-valley>
  * Washington, D.C.

    <http://modernluxury.com/washington-dc>
      o DC

        <http://modernluxury.com/washington-dc>
      o Charity and Social Datebook DC

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-dc/digital-edition>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings Washington

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-washington>


    Scene In…

<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/scene/pop-wine-party-buena-vista-winery/img227619>

Pop Up Wine Party at Buena Vista Winery
<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/scene/pop-wine-party-buena-vista-winery>

See All Photos >>
<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/scene/pop-wine-party-buena-vista-winery>



    Now Playing

<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/videos/fallfest-2015>
<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/digital-edition>
Home <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco> › News and Features
<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features> › The Mayor of
Tent City
<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/story/the-mayor-of-tent-city> ›
 3668  98  432 Google +2  21


  The Mayor of Tent City

Joe Eskenazi | Photo: Andres Gonzalez | June 28, 2016

Jeff Kositsky was hand-picked to fix homelessness in San Francisco. Is
he being set up to fail?

SLIDESHOW

Jeff Kositsky.

(1 of 5)

Dmarco, photographed June 1, 2016—Jeff Kositsky's first day on the job.

Photo: Andrew Caulfield

(2 of 5) 

Noah.

Photo: Andrew Caulfield

(3 of 5)

Stretch.

Photo: Andrew Caulfield

(4 of 5)

Brian.

Photo: Andrew Caulfield

(5 of 5)

 

*Jeff Kositsky turned 50 *in December, and, like many married fathers of
two crossing into proper middle age, he found himself pining for
“something big to happen.” So first he got an ankle tattoo (a flying
pig, symbolizing improbable success and good fortune). Then he headed to
the ski slopes. And then he fell — hard — sustaining a chest injury so
severe that his ER doctor later told him that he’d had a 50 percent
chance of dying.

But fate wasn’t done with Kositsky, because then something /really/ big
happened: In the same month he landed in the intensive care unit, San
Francisco mayor Ed Lee announced plans for a new city department
dedicated solely to reducing homelessness. The move would at long last
centralize the city’s byzantine housing and healthcare systems for the
homeless, simplifying the snarl of departments and divisions created
following the city’s impromptu response to the onset of “the
homelessness crisis” in the 1980s. This setup had long kept the city’s
homeless population at suboptimal but still manageable levels. But
lately, as the ranks of street dwellers had grown unmistakably more
visible, the political winds had begun to shift, and, the mayor
pronounced, change was coming. In May, the new department received a
name — the Department of Homelessness and Supportive Housing — and its
first director: Kositsky.

It was already dark outside when Kositsky met me later that month at a
café in Bernal Heights. As he prepared for his first government gig, he
was essentially working two jobs at once — his old one, as the executive
director of Hamilton Family Center, which connects homeless families to
housing, and his new one, which would start officially on June 1. He’d
been doing all this while still dealing with fatigue issues and internal
injuries stemming from his skiing wreck. So Kositsky looked justifiably
spent when he sat down to talk — but his mind was working overtime. He
ordered a burger and a beer, took a deep breath, and then held forth for
the next two and a half hours.

Within minutes, it was easy to see why so many people across the city’s
political spectrum have only good things to say about Kositsky. Homeless
advocates praise his compassion (“What he does comes from the heart”),
city wonks applaud his data-driven analytics (“One of the smartest
thinkers on homeless-service delivery”), and experts on all sides note
his versatility in administering to single homeless adults as well as
families.

Still, all the goodwill in the world won’t make Kositsky’s task any
easier. Running a department in this town is always an absurdist drama —
 one part /Parks and Recreation/, one part /House of Cards/. But helming
a department whose sole function is to fix our most intractable and
humiliating civic problem is a considerably taller order. “It could be
screwed up,” says a longtime City Hall denizen. “/Easily/.” That frank
appraisal has little to do with Kositsky’s likability, depth of
knowledge, or managerial experience. (Before running Hamilton, he served
for eight years as the director of another homeless-service provider,
Community Housing Partnership.) The danger comes from the fact that his
department is the product of a shotgun wedding between portions of two
entrenched bureaucracies, the Department of Public Health and the Human
Services Agency — the kind of consolidation that has proved difficult,
if not disastrous, in the past.

To succeed, Kositsky will need a lot of help — from his new,
109-employee workforce, who’ll be asked to blend together harmoniously;
from a constellation of city departments that’ll need to set aside their
territorial natures and operate collectively; and from a battalion of
politically influential nonprofit organizations that’ll be mandated to
prove their efficacy through quantifiable data. He’ll have to do all
this while coping with shrinking state and federal funding, soaring
housing costs, and near-constant second-guessing and politicking by the
city’s perpetually warring tribes: the Mayor’s Office, the Board of
Supervisors, labor unions, homeless advocates, neighborhood groups, and
God knows who else.

Whether Kositsky’s task is Sisyphean or merely Herculean remains to be
seen. But it won’t take long to get an idea. “We have to agree to a
mission and a strategy…within the first three months,” he says. “We have
to do it quickly.”

*
While it may* seem that Kositsky was the perfect man for the assignment 
— given his nonprofit pedigree, his connections to tech moguls like Marc
Benioff and companies like Google and LinkedIn (all of whom donated
generously to Hamilton), and his high Q rating with the City Family — in
fact he almost wasn’t considered at all. Sources confirm that the city
initially pursued more prominent national figures, including a federal
official from the Department of Housing and Urban Development. But
landing on Kositsky may yet be a blessing for this city.

Though San Francisco has often been at the forefront of programs to aid
the indigent (“Housing first” has been a talking point since at least
the Gavin Newsom years) and the city now allots more than $200 million a
year to the problem, our homeless population has remained remarkably
consistent. There were an estimated 6,248 men and women on our streets
and in our shelters in 2005, and there were approximately 6,686 in 2015.
After all these years, our big problem is that we still /have /a
problem. “We have all the tools, all the programs,” Kositsky argues. “We
have the expertise. We have the creativity.” What we don’t always have,
however, is execution. “Salt Lake City and Houston took what they
learned from San Francisco,” he continues, “and — absolutely — 
coordinated it better than we do.” Prior to the formation of Kositsky’s
department, eight different city bodies oversaw around 400 contracts
with more than six dozen housing and service providers addressing the
now perpetual homelessness crisis.

With that many players in the field, sometimes it’s easy to lose the
ball. This can result in embarrassment for the city and great suffering
for the homeless men and women it aims to help. To wit, in May 2014,
City Attorney Dennis Herrera sued various members of the Thakor family
for “appalling” conditions in residential hotels that had been
contracted by the Department of Public Health to house vulnerable
homeless people in “stabilization units.” The DPH had entered into a
pact with the Thakors despite their reputation among city housing
experts of “underbidding on every contract and letting their buildings
go to shit.” This input, however, was not sought out —and so the city
attorney ended up taking action against the hoteliers for running slums
on the city’s dime.

With the formation of the Department of Homelessness, policy decisions
like these will be approved by Kositsky, who has expertise in homeless
and housing issues. It is unlikely he will opt to do business with
people like the Thakors.

Just what the city is getting from the business partners it contracts
with is a multimillion-dollar question — and one that, in the past,
hasn’t always been firmly asked. “I wrote my own contracts with my own
goals and objectives,” a former longtime homeless-service nonprofit
worker tells me. “They didn’t care what I did. They made decisions based
on politics.” Those contracts, he continues, were approved, essentially
pro forma, by the DPH.

Though city officials will trumpet the fact that San Francisco has
housed thousands of homeless people over the last decade and sent
thousands more on bus journeys to safe harbors elsewhere, the city is
nonetheless saddled with the perception of being grossly dysfunctional
in the realm of homeless services. Certainly our status quo could use an
upgrade. But not everyone has been heartened by Mayor Lee’s plan to
enact one. On March 22, a “position paper” was issued internally by the
Housing and Homeless Division of the Human Services Agency — 
self-described as “the division that is leading the efforts on serving
homeless people in San Francisco.” In this document, which /San
Francisco/ obtained via a public records request, the 50-odd HSA
staffers responsible for the piece proclaimed that their division
possessed “the most experience, institutional and current knowledge, and
relationships with the nonprofits serving the homeless,” and thus, “our
opinions on the new homeless department should be heard.” These opinions
were not enthusiastic: “We believe better outcomes can be achieved with
more coordination and expansion  of services, but not as a result of
taking the Housing and Homeless Division out of HSA. Doing this will
cost more money, be administratively challenging, and cause a disruption
of current services.” 

Longtime HSA head Trent Rhorer downplayed the notion that the paper
served as a potshot at the new department and its leadership. “I have no
concerns at all,” he said, about the loyalty and dedication of the
division’s employees — who now comprise the lion’s share of Kositsky’s
workforce. “They are professionals. They will step up and continue to
work hard and house thousands.” Fair enough — but the paper was not
received kindly by some within City Hall, who sighed at its
provincialism. Its authors, says one veteran City Hall staffer, “enjoy
working in their silo. And they/are /doing good work. But the idea that
we can’t somehow do a reorganization on this issue is indefensible.”

And yet while consolidating departments may appear logical on paper,
efforts to actually do so in San Francisco rarely go as planned. Over
the last decade, attempts to unify the city’s multiple IT departments,
centralize early childhood education, and streamline workforce
development divisions have all, to one degree or another, failed — or
nominally moved ahead only after an extreme backlash from the parties
offering duplicative or overlapping services. “I believe we were
thwarted,” says Ross Mirkarimi, who, as supervisor, carried legislation
to consolidate workforce development, “by the fiefdoms, by the inertia.” 

So, on top of a mandate to “solve” this city’s homeless problem,
/that’s /what Jeff Kositsky is up against: fiefdoms, inertia, and the
we’ve-always-done-it-this-way mantra of those with “the most
experience.” San Francisco’s newest department head may, in the short
term, be more challenged by internal scuffles than by actually
delivering services to the affected population. Despite carving away
workers and authority from the HSA and DPH, Kositsky will still be
heavily dependent on the former to administer programs for the city’s
impoverished residents and on the latter to carry out mental health
treatment — both of which are critical to the homeless population. And
as Kositsky settles into the job, it remains to be seen how much
patience — and political support — he’ll be granted. The successes of
homeless programs are invisible; the failures are ever apparent.

*
“I want to* make sure the public understands I think there is a crisis,”
Kositsky said while working through his burger. “Encampments are a
crisis. Untreated mental health and substance abuse issues are a crisis.
I’m not going to stop until the crisis is over.” And yet, he continued,
the pervasive narrative that this city has utterly failed and its
homelessness situation has gone unchecked is false. “Many other cities
in the past couple of years have had double-digit increases in
homelessness — Los Angeles, Denver, Seattle, D.C. During that time,
we’ve had a 3.7 percent increase. I’m not going to say ‘Rah-rah,’ but
people need to know the facts.”

San Francisco’s homeless numbers have hardly budged over the past 10
years — which is frustrating, considering the vast amounts of money and
effort expended. But it could be worse; just look almost anywhere else.
In this contention, Kositsky is backed up by Jennifer Friedenbach of the
Coalition on Homelessness, perhaps the most pointed critic of the city’s
approach to combating homelessness. “I don’t think the situation is
worse,” she says. But “there is a lot more visibility of the
population,” and the people on the street now are older and sicklier
than in past years. Those with long memories may recall, as Kositsky
does, “350 people sleeping in front of City Hall” in 1989, the year the
Philadelphia native arrived. There were, he says, “way more people
living in the streets before. /Way/ more. People forget that.” 

The problem is that, despite all the tools and expertise and programs
that Kositsky lauds, and despite the HSA’s more than tenfold increase in
homeless-services budgeting since 2000 and a twentyfold increase in the
tally of HSA supportive housing units, we’ve only managed to tread
water. And now, with Mayor Lee’s plummeting poll numbers — brought on in
part by his ham-fisted response to the city’s tent encampments —treading
water is no longer acceptable. And so Kositsky possesses real authority.
He is not a “homeless czar” à la Bevan Dufty, who had no authority,
fiscal or otherwise. (“Bevan couldn’t even get us meetings,” bemoans a
city homelessness activist.) Kositsky is a /real /department head of a
/real /department; he will hire his own deputy directors and — crucially
 — oversee $175 million in grants and contracts with the nonprofits who
do much of the front-end housing and case management of homeless people. 

This may open the door to an option that some in City Hall have long
sought: consolidating not just city homeless services, but also those
many nonprofits. Kositsky, a data whiz at Hamilton, hopes to weed out
inefficient providers and determine the tasks at which they excel or are
wanting through outcome-based measurements. He’ll insist on “common
standards” and uniform data systems that will reveal who is providing
the most economic services. “It’s not rocket science,” he assures. “It’s
been done before.” But not necessarily done in San Francisco, where it’s
bound to ruffle feathers within the nonprofit community. Forcing
providers to prove that they’re succeeding “is the big lever,” Kositsky
says. “That’s what makes me different from Bevan’s shop — how we
contract with the nonprofits.”

All of this talk has long been avoided by politicians, says one longtime
city player, because “nobody wants to rile up the nonprofits.” (These
organizations are often politically active and influential, and
frequently lobby elected leaders.) But that may well be about to change.
Asked if he’d like to consolidate the nonprofits his new department
contracts with, Kositsky replies in a nanosecond: “/Hells/ yeah.”

*
No matter how* competent or compassionate Kositsky is, or how effective
the homeless-management computer system he hopes to create is, or how
much less randomly and more appropriately the city’s scant housing will
be apportioned in the near future, it’s impossible for one city to solve
America’s homelessness crisis. State funds are drying up. Governor Jerry
Brown, who curtailed state redevelopment agencies and has questioned the
funding of affordable housing, is an angst-inducing figure within
homeless and housing circles; his predecessor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, is
 — counterintuitively — more fondly recalled. 

In the end, the one thing that would truly solve the homelessness crisis
is one thing that Kositsky has severely limited ability to control: the
acquisition of sufficient housing. “Better computer systems and all the
other kinds of shit — it really totally misses the point. All the
[housing] programs are full,” says Friedenbach. San Francisco, adds a
city official who heavily backs Kositsky, has an “obligation to manage
the system much better.” But without an infusion of federal resources,
“the public isn’t going to see a massive improvement. Anyone who
pretends otherwise is kidding themselves.”

That’s a grim assessment, and one upon which Kositsky would rather not
dwell. Back at the café, he revealed that his youngest daughter’s
reaction to his new job was “Now you can help Jesse!” Jesse is a
neighborhood homeless guy. He has, in the past, told Kositsky that he’s
gone three months without speaking to another human being and “needs to
live under a bridge” because he is “really spiritual.” As if on cue,
Jesse stumbled past the café, his long black hair knotted, his clothes
fetid. As he passed by, he waved a half-eaten slice of salvaged pizza.

Without a moment’s hesitation, Kositsky got up and fast-walked outside.
He was gone for a while; when he came back, he shook his head and said
that Jesse was “usually cleaner.” Asked his prediction for the future,
the new department head kept it succinct: “I am hopeful the system will
work better and do a much better job than what we’re doing.” And Jesse’s
future? Kositsky paused for a long while. And then: “It’s not an easy case.”

 

/Originally published in the July issue of/ San Francisco

/Have feedback? Email us at //letterssf@sanfranmag.com/
<mailto:letterssf@sanfranmag.com>/
Email Joe Eskenazi at //Jeskenazi@modernluxury.com/
<mailto:jeskenazi@modernluxury.com>/
Follow us on Twitter //@sanfranmag/ <http://twitter.com/sanfranmag>/
Follow Joe Eskenazi at //@EskSF/ <http://twitter.com/esksf>

  * About Us <http://modernluxury.com/advertise>
  * Advertise <http://modernluxury.com/advertise>
  * Contact Us <http://www.modernluxury.com/contact>
  * Careers <http://modernluxury.com/careers>
  * Privacy Policy <http://modernluxury.com/privacy_policy>
  * Sign Up <http://modernluxury.com/signup>
  * Subscribe <https://online.icnfull.com/lxp/?action=SUBSCRIPTION>
  * RSS <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/rss.xml>
  * Our Publications <http://modernluxury.com/our-publications>
  * Custom Publishing <http://customcontent.modernluxury.com/>

  |   © Modern Luxury   |   Terms of Service
<http://modernluxury.com/terms_of_use>

<#>

<#>

<#>

<#>

<#>

<#><#><#><#><#>
