  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * TheCannifornian.com

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

The Mercury News

<http://www.mercurynews.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local

    <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * TheCannifornian.com

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>


        San Jose to mull short and long-term homeless…
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/24/san-jose-to-mull-short-and-long-term-homeless-housing/>



Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/24/san-jose-to-mull-short-and-long-term-homeless-housing/?share=facebook>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/24/san-jose-to-mull-short-and-long-term-homeless-housing/?share=twitter>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/24/san-jose-to-mull-short-and-long-term-homeless-housing/?share=email>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/24/san-jose-to-mull-short-and-long-term-homeless-housing/#print>
*

<#>

Trending:

  * Taylor Swift photo leaked
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/14/taylor-swift-sealed-photo-hits-the-internet/>

  * Dakota pipeline rally in S.F.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/you-cant-drink-oil-dakota-pipeline-rally-draws-hundreds-in-san-francisco/>

  * DWTS: The semifinals
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/dancing-with-the-stars-perfect-10s-dont-help-terra-jole/>

  * Why Kaepernick couldn’t vote
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/kaepernick-didnt-vote-because-he-couldnt-vote/>

  * Weird cat obsessions
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/macys-store-receipts-drove-cat-crazy/>

  * Ask Amy
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/ask-amy-how-can-i-get-over-grief-over-my-miscarriage/>



Business <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>


  San Jose to mull short and long-term homeless housing


Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/24/san-jose-to-mull-short-and-long-term-homeless-housing/?share=facebook>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/24/san-jose-to-mull-short-and-long-term-homeless-housing/?share=twitter>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/24/san-jose-to-mull-short-and-long-term-homeless-housing/?share=email>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/24/san-jose-to-mull-short-and-long-term-homeless-housing/#print>
*

By Ramona Giwargis <http://www.mercurynews.com/author/ramona-giwargis/>
| rgiwargis@bayareanewsgroup.com <mailto:rgiwargis@bayareanewsgroup.com>	
PUBLISHED: June 24, 2016 at 8:10 am | UPDATED: August 11, 2016 at 11:14 pm

SAN JOSE — Solving Silicon Valley’s homeless problem takes more than one
approach.

City leaders on Tuesday will mull a variety of solutions that fit each
category, starting with the short-term: extending an ordinance that
allows churches to house homeless people for 35 days a year without any
red tape or costly permits. That program, which was approved in
December, will end June 30. The City Council Tuesday will consider
extending it another year and allowing faith-based groups to house the
poor twice a year — still for 35 days at a time.

“The faith-based community is telling us we want to do more and we want
to empower them,” said Ray Bramson, San Jose’s homeless response
manager. “This shows what people are able to do when the government
steps back and gives them a little more flexibility.”

The Holy Spirit Parish in Almaden Valley was one of 16 churches that
signed up. For one month, 600 volunteers helped cook meals and provide
support to 15 homeless women.

“The women came here with a variety of problems that put them on the
streets,” said Mike Ferrero, the church’s director of social ministries.
“We developed personal relationships with them and they didn’t have to
worry about where their next meal was coming from or where they would
sleep.”

The second proposal on Tuesday’s agenda is temporary “bridge housing” —
a cluster of manufactured homes on Evans Lane to shelter residents until
they find permanent housing. The plan, which has drawn criticism from
neighbors who fear the project will increase crime, would create 102
bedrooms with shared kitchens and bathroom space.

The City Council will consider rezoning the six-acre site to allow for
residential use, a change approved last month by the Planning Commission.

City leaders chose Abode Services to build the dwellings — a $15 million
undertaking — but approval of the contract was delayed until August at
the request of Councilman Pierluigi Oliverio, who represents the site
near Canoas Garden.

“It was putting the cart before the horse,” Oliverio said. “We can’t
give Abode a ground lease and $15 million before we vote on the project.
The residents were told they had the chance to speak on the project
prior to a decision being made. We need to honor that.”

Then there’s the need for permanent housing. That’s where the
controversial Senter Road project comes into play. The plan calls for
building a 162-unit apartment complex called the Renascent Place for
chronically homeless people. It would be built on county-owned land at
2500 Senter Road that’s inside city limits. Santa Clara County teamed up
with Charities Housing, a nonprofit housing developer, on the project
and it won’t cost the city anything.

A team of eight to 12 employees would provide supportive services on
site, and the facility would have 24-hour security. But neighbors voice
similar concerns as Evans Lane: Increased crime, traffic, noise,
decreased property values and safety concerns.

Homelessness experts, however, say a well-managed apartment facility
will provide more eyes on the street and could actually deter crime.
Senter Road neighbors appealed the Planning Commission’s unanimous
approval of the project in April, and the City Council will consider
whether to uphold it Tuesday.

Councilman Tam Nguyen, whose district includes the development, withdrew
his support of the plan after pressure from residents and a trip to
Portland, where he slept in a legal tent city. He believes Senter Road
isn’t a good spot for the project and outdoor encampments might be a
better approach.

“Absolutely it can work here,” Nguyen said in a previous interview. “If
it’s done the right way. Give it a chance. But we need to take it slow
and start with a small project first.”

The City Council on Tuesday will also hear an update on encampments. It
was nearly a year ago that San Jose shut down “The Jungle,” one of the
country’s largest illegal homeless camps. City housing officials say
they are wary of sanctioned encampments because they don’t bring
homeless indoors or provide stability.

But the city’s elected leaders joined the county in January to seek bids
for an operator to build “unconventional housing” — including
encampments. Two nonprofits submitted bids, Bramson said, but neither
addressed overcoming the environmental, fire and safety barriers of tent
cities.

The council Tuesday is also expected approve providing funding for
capital improvements to landlords who accept referrals to house homeless
veterans. It’s part of the All the Way Home campaign, which aims to
house all 700 homeless vets in Santa Clara County by 2018. The city set
aside $5 million in funding for the endeavor.

The city’s multipronged approach pleased advocates who work to house the
homeless.

“Homelessness isn’t all created equal; nor should be our solutions,”
said Jennifer Loving, who directs the nonprofit Destination: Home. “We
need a variety of tools to ensure we are able to provide the right
intervention, just as we would with health care or business.”

Contact Ramona Giwargis at 408-920-5705. Follow her at
Twitter.com/ramonagiwargis <http://twitter.com/ramonagiwargis>.

  * Tags: 
  * California Governor
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/california-governor/>

Ramona Giwargis, City of San Jose city hall reporter, San Jose Mercury
News, for her Wordpress profile. (Michael Malone/Bay Area News Group)	


Ramona Giwargis <http://www.mercurynews.com/author/ramona-giwargis/>

Ramona Giwargis is the San Jose City Hall reporter at The Mercury News.
After stints in Eureka, Salinas and Merced, Giwargis returned to San
Jose to cover local government and politics for her hometown newspaper.
Giwargis won numerous awards for investigative journalism and is a
graduate of San Jose State University.
// Follow Ramona Giwargis @ramonagiwargis
<https://twitter.com/ramonagiwargis>
Subscribe Today! All Access Digital offer for just 99 cents!
<https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dsssubscribe.aspx>
 
You Might Also Like

  *
    8 Reasons to Consider Buying Invisible Aligners Online 8 Reasons to
    Consider Buying Invisible Aligners Online SmileDirectClub
    <https://smiledirectclub.com/blog/8-reasons-why-you-should-buy-invisible-aligners-online/?utm_source=outbrain&utm_medium=display&utm_campaign=outbraincontent&utm_term=248358>

  *
    Enter Your Name, Wait 12 Seconds, Brace Yourself Enter Your Name,
    Wait 12 Seconds, Brace Yourself TruthFinder
    <http://tracking.truthfinder.com/?a=163&oc=27&c=303&dip=&s1=TopPerformingWLDesktop>

  *
    What Kim Basinger Looks Like Now is Jaw-Dropping What Kim Basinger
    Looks Like Now is Jaw-Dropping Definition
    <http://definition.org/stars-of-the-80s-where-are-they-now/?utm_source=Outbrain&utm_content=004eb995db75e2d648d4f75b1a4ce2fb62&utm_term=67335279&utm_campaign=Outbrain_80TN>

  *
    This Bankruptcy Set To Destroy Hillary's Career This Bankruptcy Set
    To Destroy Hillary's Career MoneyWise 411
    <http://moneywise411.com/major-american-institution-bankrupt-2/> 

  *
    The 47 Rarest Things On Planet Earth The 47 Rarest Things On Planet
    Earth BuzzGiraffe
    <http://buzzgiraffe.com/rare-photos-reveal-shocking-things-planet/?utm_source=outbrain&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=bg-planet-desk-2016-10-25-v2>

  *
    28 Photos You Have To See Before Voting Republican 28 Photos You
    Have To See Before Voting Republican Detonate
    <http://adrzr.com/54md?utm_source=9v1-2&utm_campaign=9v1-2_US_desktop_trumpfamily_12_54md_20160811_jw_3425&utm_term=248358&utm_source=9v1&utm_campaign=9v1_US_desktop_trumpfamily_12_54md_20160811_rr_3425&utm_term=248358>

  *
    Olympic Medalists Like You've Never Seen Them Before Olympic
    Medalists Like You've Never Seen Them Before AllRookie
    <http://allrookie.com/olympic-gold-medalists-then-and-now/?utm_content=2889db&utm_campaign=ar-desk-us-sbatnob&utm_source=outbrain&utm_medium=248358>

  *
    How To Pay Off Your House At A Furious Pace If You Owe Less Than
    $300-625k How To Pay Off Your House At A Furious Pace If You Owe…
    LowerMyBills.com
    <https://www.lowermybills.com/lending/home-refinance/index.loan?pkey1=&pkey2=&pkey3=&sourceid=lmb-38256-82091&moid=131629>


  *
    Palo Alto: Sister-in-law arrested as suspect in acupuncturist’s
    homicide Palo Alto: Sister-in-law arrested as suspect in…
    MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/10/06/palo-alto-sister-in-law-arrested-as-suspect-in-acupuncturists-homicide/>

  *
    San Jose: Massive child-porn cache leads to man’s arrest,
    authorities say San Jose: Massive child-porn cache leads to man’s…
    MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/10/03/san-jose-massive-child-porn-cache-leads-to-mans-arrest-authorities-say/>

  *
    DA: Palo Alto woman stabbed sister-in-law 41 times DA: Palo Alto
    woman stabbed sister-in-law 41 times MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/10/11/da-palo-alto-woman-stabbed-sister-in-law-41-times/>

  *
    Contemplating Ivanka Trump’s fall from grace Contemplating Ivanka
    Trump’s fall from grace MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/10/14/contemplating-ivanka-trumps-fall-from-grace/>


Recommended by<http://www.outbrain.com/what-is/default/en>
blog comments powered by Disqus <http://disqus.com/>

Sign up for our newsletters!

Subscribe <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
Follow Us

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>


    Most Popular

 1. Taylor Swift sealed photo hits the Internet

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/14/taylor-swift-sealed-photo-hits-the-internet/>

 2. Promising life cut short in Saratoga crash

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/promising-life-cut-short-in-saratoga-crash/>

 3. San Jose: Teacher allegedly threatened student with deportation
    under Trump

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/san-jose-teacher-allegedly-threatens-student-with-deportation-under-trump/>

 4. Warriors film room: Examining the defensive issues

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/warriors-film-room-breaking-down-golden-states-early-season-defensive-issues/>

 5. San Jose: Man slain near Lake Cunningham identified

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/san-jose-police-identify-man-killed-near-lake-cunningham-park/>

 6. Megyn Kelly says it’s important people learn of Trump’s actions

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/megyn-kelly-says-its-important-people-learn-of-trumps-actions/>

 7. Tacolicious opens its San Jose/Santana Row outpost

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/tacolicious-opens-its-san-josesantana-row-outpost/>

 8. San Jose: New allegations surface in Donald Trump riot lawsuit

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/15/san-jose-new-allegations-surface-in-donald-trump-riot-lawsuit/>



    More in Real Estate

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/14/san-jose-city-reaches-proposed-settlement-with-sharks-over-diridon-development/>

    The team's parent company, Sharks Sports & Entertainment, filed suit
    in June against San Jose and developer Trammell Crow Co. to stop a
    massive new project near the Diridon transit station that would eat
    up parking spaces near the arena.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/14/san-jose-city-reaches-proposed-settlement-with-sharks-over-diridon-development/>



              San Jose expected to settle Sharks’ lawsuit over Diridon
              development
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/14/san-jose-city-reaches-proposed-settlement-with-sharks-over-diridon-development/>


    November 15, 2016, 2:57 am

    The team’s parent company, Sharks Sports & Entertainment, filed suit
    in June against San Jose and developer Trammell Crow Co. to stop a
    massive new project near the Diridon transit station that would eat
    up parking spaces near the arena.
    11

    <#comments>

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/14/californians-fleeing-high-cost-of-housing/>

    California’s warm weather, sunny beaches and world-class schools
    have lured people to the Golden State for decades, but rising home
    prices are turning that equation around.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/14/californians-fleeing-high-cost-of-housing/>



              Californians fleeing high cost of housing
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/14/californians-fleeing-high-cost-of-housing/>


    November 15, 2016, 12:25 pm

    California’s warm weather, sunny beaches and world-class schools
    have lured people to the Golden State for decades, but rising home
    prices are turning that equation around.
    270

    <#comments>

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/13/making-california-housing-affordable-again-will-require-new-laws-more-avenues-to-build/>

    How can California increase the number of homes that people can afford?
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/13/making-california-housing-affordable-again-will-require-new-laws-more-avenues-to-build/>



              Making California housing affordable again will require
              new laws, more avenues to build
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/13/making-california-housing-affordable-again-will-require-new-laws-more-avenues-to-build/>


    November 14, 2016, 5:15 am

    How can California increase the number of homes that people can afford?
    9

    <#comments>

  *

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/12/end-of-an-era-will-city-centers-make-the-great-american-mall-a-thing-of-the-past/>

    City centers, like Santana Row, are a new trend popping up
    throughout the Bay Area and are a reaction to the suburban movement
    of the 1950s onward, experts said.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/12/end-of-an-era-will-city-centers-make-the-great-american-mall-a-thing-of-the-past/>



              The Santana Row effect: City centers popping up in Bay
              Area
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/11/12/end-of-an-era-will-city-centers-make-the-great-american-mall-a-thing-of-the-past/>


    November 14, 2016, 1:25 pm

    City centers, like Santana Row, are a new trend popping up
    throughout the Bay Area and are a reaction to the suburban movement
    of the 1950s onward, experts said.

  * Member Services <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
  * News Alerts <https://digioh.com/BANG/general?source=TakeAction>

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>

  * Subscribe

    <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx?pid=22>

    <#>
      o Manage Your Subscription <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
      o All Access Subscriptions <http://www.bayareanewsaccess.com/>
      o Today’s e-Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
      o Newsletter Sign-Up <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
      o Mobile Apps <http://www.mercurynews.com/mobile/>
  * Contact Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/contact-us/>

    <#>
      o Corrections <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/corrections/>
      o Reprints <http://www.mercurynews.com/reprints/>
      o Archive Search <http://www.mercurynews.com/archive-search/>
      o Lottery <http://www.mercurynews.com/lottery/>
  * Classifieds

    <http://marketplace.bayareanewsgroup.com/marketplace/>

    <#>
      o Autos <http://www.norcaldrives.com/>
      o Jobs <http://www.mercurynews.com/jobs/>
      o Real Estate <http://realestate.mercurynews.com/>
      o Place an Obituary
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
      o Place a Legal Ad
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/legals/index.html>
  * Advertise With Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/advertise/>

    <#>
      o Today’s Ads <http://ads.mercurynews.com/>
      o Weekly Ads <http://www.mercurynews.com/weekly-ads/>
      o Local Guide <http://mylocal.mercurynews.com/>
      o Fry’s Ad
        <http://newspaperads.mercurynews.com/FSI/tiles.aspx?advid=200177&loc=53824>
      o Public Notices <http://capublicnotice.com/>

  * © 2016 Digital First Media <http://www.digitalfirstmedia.com/>
  * Site Map <http://www.mercurynews.com/sitemap.xml>
  * Copyright <http://www.mercurynews.com/copyright/>
  * Privacy Policy <http://www.mercurynews.com/privacy-policy/>
  * Powered by WordPress.com VIP <https://vip.wordpress.com/>
  * Bay Area News Group

    <http://www.bayareanewsgroup.com/>

Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel

<#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

