Xodi LB <javascript:void(0)>
MissionLocal <http://missionlocal.org/>


MissionLocal

Sections

  * Español <http://missionlocal.org/category/en-espanol/>
  * News <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/>
      o Mission Fire <http://missionlocal.org/mission-fire-r/>
      o Technology
        <http://missionlocal.org/category/money/technology-money/>
      o Business <http://missionlocal.org/category/money/>
      o Culture <http://missionlocal.org/category/the-arts/>
          + Food <http://missionlocal.org/category/food-topics/>
          + SROs: Rooms out of View
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/sro-topics/>
          + Dolores Park
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/dolores-park-topics/>
      o Transit <https://missionlocal.org/category/topics/transportation/>
          + BART <http://missionlocal.org/category/bart/>
          + Bikes <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/bikes-topics/>
      o Education <http://missionlocal.org/category/hall-pass/>
          + Elementary Schools
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/hall-pass/elementary-schools-2/>
          + Middle Schools
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/hall-pass/middle-schools/>
          + High School
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/hall-pass/high-school-hall-pass/>
      o Stop! Ask. <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/stop-ask/>
      o Street Science
        <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/street-science/>
      o Housing <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/housing-topics/>
          + 24th Street <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/24th/>
          + Mission Street
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/mission-street-topics/>
          + Valencia Street
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/valencia-street-topics/>
  * Trouble <http://missionlocal.org/category/trouble/>
  * Restaurant Reviews <http://missionlocal.org/restaurant-reviews/>
  * Housing <http://missionlocal.org/housingwatch/>
  * Guide <http://missionlocal.org/newcomers/>
      o The Essential Guide <http://missionlocal.org/newcomers/>
      o Stories on Local History
        <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/mission-history-topics/>
  * Events <https://missionlocal.org/mission-events/>
  * About <http://missionlocal.org/about/>
      o Shop <http://missionlocal.org/shop/>
  * Memberships <https://missionlocal.org/ml-membership/>
      o For Readers <http://missionlocal.org/ml-membership/>
      o For Business <http://missionlocal.org/ml-business-membership/>
      o We’ve Joined! Residents
        <http://missionlocal.org/contributing-members-page/>
      o We’ve Joined! Businesses <http://missionlocal.org/businessmembers/>
      o FAQs
        <https://missionlocal.org/2014/10/faqs-mission-locals-membership-drive/>
  * Advertise <http://missionlocal.org/advertise/>


  San Francisco Homeless Respond to Tent Ban

An encampment near Division Street after the crackdown by the city in
February 2016. Photo: Joe Rivano Barros

An encampment near Division Street after the crackdown by the city in
February 2016. Photo: Joe Rivano Barros

By Joe Rivano Barros <http://missionlocal.org/author/joer/>
<http://twitter.com/jrivanob> Posted June 28, 2016 6:30 am
Facebook <http://missionlocal.org/#facebook>Twitter
<http://missionlocal.org/#twitter>Share
<https://www.addtoany.com/share#url=http%3A%2F%2Fmissionlocal.org%2F2016%2F06%2Fsan-francisco-homeless-respond-to-tent-ban%2F&title=San%20Francisco%20Homeless%20Respond%20to%20Tent%20Ban>

“I think that’s pretty shitty,” said Greg Jensen, a 52-year-old homeless
man in the Mission District, of a proposed law that would ban tent
encampments and give the city the power to seize the property of those
who refuse to disperse.

“What the fuck?” Jensen added, scratching off a lottery ticket near his
encampment. “They’re gonna take my stuff and throw it away?”

The new proposal would amend the police code to make it illegal to camp
on sidewalks. After getting the sponsorship of four supervisors —
including its main backer, Supervisor Mark Farrell, who represents the
Marina and Pacific Heights — the measure will be on the November ballot
<http://www.sfgate.com/politics/article/Tent-city-law-headed-to-ballot-in-SF-8316714.php>
and requires voter approval to become law.

City workers would have to give residents of encampments 24 hours
notice, however, and provide an alternative option — like a shelter bed
or bus ticket to family or friends — before dismantling the encampment.

Mission Pie In Story <javascript:void(0)>

All belongings would also be held by the Department of Public Works for
90 days, and written notices would be posted alerting encampment
residents of where they can go to retrieve their stuff.

But in interviews with some dozen homeless residents, most said the
measure would increase sweeps and dreaded the prospect of not being able
to stay in one place for long. Many said the actions taken by the city
earlier this year toclear out encampments on Division Street
<http://missionlocal.org/2016/02/sf-declares-public-health-emergency-at-homeless-camps-on-division/>had
only moved them into residential areas, and feared more laws would do
the same.

Others said they shelter system was broken and that frequent fights and
stolen belongings turned them off from seeking such housing. All
said the law would codify what is already common practice on the
streets: city workers taking the property of homeless people and moving
them from place to place.

“They’ve been doing that for five mayors,” said Oscar McKinney, a
homeless man who moved to San Francisco for its status as a gay haven.
McKinney said he’s been homeless for 35 years and that Public Works has
taken his stuff time and again. “The city’s thrown away my dentures four
times.”

McKinney did see an upside — the one day notice. Currently, camps are
often swept with no notice at all. He said moving day is “always a
hateful day in everyone’s life,” straining camp dynamics and creation
tension between friends and partners.

“Mike and I argue the most [on moving day],” he said, referring to his
boyfriend. “We don’t know what to keep, we don’t know what to do.”

“That’s straight up robbery,” said Mia Dowell, a 30-year-old homeless
woman. She also said the new law would continue the status quo, and said
her stuff has been routinely taken by Public Works. “They use DPW as a
tool to steal our belongings to begin with.”

Andre Davis, a 63-year-old homeless man, said he doesn’t like the
“impositions” shelters put in place on people, like late-night curfews
and 6 a.m. wake-up calls.

“Then you got nowhere to go, not even the liquor store,” he said. “I
have a problem with people telling me what to do, I have a problem with
authority.”

“They’re gonna put you in a bed with bugs and parasites,” said Khalilah
Mitchell, his partner. Both said the city should improve its shelter
system or instead create open spaces where encampments can grow
unmolested, with showers and bathrooms for residents — similar to aplan
drafted by Supervisor John Avalos earlier this year
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/supervisor-avalos-proposes-rules-sweeps-homeless-tents/>.

Some said confiscating belongings could jeopardize lives. A 35-year-old
homeless woman who did not wish to be identified said the prospect of
the city taking her tent away would invite more sexual violence, already
a mainstay living on the streets.

“This is what keeps us safe,” she said, referring to a wooden shelter on
wheels. “I’m a woman, I’ve already been raped once, I need my shelter.”

“I’m a seven-time rape victim,” said another woman, worried for her
security if her things were confiscated.

Current city law prohibits sitting and lying down on sidewalks between 7
a.m. and 11 p.m., and the health code is often used as a means to clear
out homeless encampments, but there is nothing in the police code that
explicitly prohibits setting up a tent in the public right of way.

Farrell’s proposal would change that. Homeless advocates have come out
against the law, saying it criminalizes homelessness without addressing
the lack of housing and services, while Farrell says it simply ensures
that residents of encampments are given the option to move into shelter.

“There is no criminalization element whatsoever in our policy,” said
Jess Montejano, an aide to the supervisor. Montejano said the law would
give the new Department of Homelessness — along with the Department of
Public Health and Department of Public Works — the ability to more
effectively coordinate available shelters with those on the street.

Police would become involved as needed, he said, and they are not
explicitly stated in the proposal. Police officers routinely help Public
Works clear encampments now, however, and the law specifically amends
the police code.

In interviews with the homeless, many say they’ve been told to move
further and further south into the Mission District and Bayview-Hunter’s
Point in recent months, cops explicitly saying they should avoid
downtown areas.

*Not Enough Shelters*

Proponents of the law hope that the offer of shelter will be taken and
that it won’t become just another means of moving the homeless from
place to place. But those on the street are skeptical that there are
enough shelters to take them in.

The lastpoint-in-time count for San Francisco homeless
<http://sfgov.org/lhcb/sites/default/files/2015%20San%20Francisco%20Homeless%20Count%20%20Report_0.pdf>was
taken in January 2015 and found 6,686 homeless people in the city, 4,358
of whom were unhoused on the streets. The city does not have the
thousands of units that would be required to take them in.

And many of those interviewed said they have already been visited by
members of the Homeless Outreach Team with promises of shelter that
don’t materialize, while others said the waitlist at shelters is just
too long.

Kelley Cutler, a organizer with the Coalition on Homelessness, said
there’s more than 800 people waiting for shelter space and that
Farrell’s law could make those already waiting for shelter wait even
longer, as encampments with neighborhood complaints are given priority.

“This could make it worse, prioritizing services based on complaints
rather than a fair process,” she said.

Montejano, the aide to Supervisor Farrell, said the Department of
Homelessness and other city agencies would coordinate prioritization for
those needing shelter and would have their own criteria.

Cutler was also skeptical that the law would make it easier for the
homeless to retrieve their belongings. Already Public Works says it bags
and tags property confiscated from encampments, but several homeless
residents said they don’t understand the process for retrieving their
belongings or have tried to no avail.

/This story was published as part of a citywide initiative of some 70
news organizations to cover homelessness. You can see the full range of
coverage here <http://www.sfgate.com/homeless/>./


Share this:

  * Print
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/06/san-francisco-homeless-respond-to-tent-ban/#print>
  * Email
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/06/san-francisco-homeless-respond-to-tent-ban/?share=email&nb=1>
  * More <#>
*

  *
  *
  *
  * Share on Tumblr
    <https://www.tumblr.com/share/link/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fmissionlocal.org%2F2016%2F06%2Fsan-francisco-homeless-respond-to-tent-ban%2F&name=San%20Francisco%20Homeless%20Respond%20to%20Tent%20Ban>
*


      /Related/

Campos: Mission Homeless Tents Gone in 4 Months
<http://missionlocal.org/2016/09/supervisor-promises-to-end-mission-homeless-encampments-in-four-months/>September
13, 2016In "Featured"

Community, Advocates Divided On Homeless Encampments
<http://missionlocal.org/2016/09/community-advocates-divided-on-homeless-encampments/>September
9, 2016In "Featured"

SF Wants Homeless to Relocate, Homeless Want Land
<http://missionlocal.org/2016/01/city-demands-that-homeless-relocate-homeless-demand-land/>January
30, 2016In "Featured"

Facebook <http://missionlocal.org/#facebook>Twitter
<http://missionlocal.org/#twitter>Share
<https://www.addtoany.com/share#url=http%3A%2F%2Fmissionlocal.org%2F2016%2F06%2Fsan-francisco-homeless-respond-to-tent-ban%2F&title=San%20Francisco%20Homeless%20Respond%20to%20Tent%20Ban>

Filed under: Featured <http://missionlocal.org/category/featured/>,
Front Page <http://missionlocal.org/category/front-page/>, Mobile
<http://missionlocal.org/category/mobile/>, Newsletter
<http://missionlocal.org/category/newsletter/>, SF Homeless Project
<http://missionlocal.org/category/sf-homeless-project/>, Today's Mission
<http://missionlocal.org/category/todays-mission/>

Tagged: homeless <http://missionlocal.org/tag/homeless/>, homelessness
<http://missionlocal.org/tag/homelessness/>


    You may also like:

#

  * File photo: Students participate in a workshop at Mission High
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/classroom-volunteers-sought-for-mission-schools/>Classroom
    Volunteers Sought for Mission Schools
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/classroom-volunteers-sought-for-mission-schools/>
  * Mi Pueblita near 24th. Photo by Lydia Chávez
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-margarita-party/>SNAP:
    Margarita Party? <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-margarita-party/>
  * Multikulti at 539 Valencia St. Photo by Joe Rivano Barros.
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/multikulti-on-valencia-street-to-close-after-16-years/>Multikulti
    on Valencia Street to Close After 16 Years
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/multikulti-on-valencia-street-to-close-after-16-years/>


      3 Comments

 1.
    Bob Evans
    June 28, 2016 at 4:03 pm
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/06/san-francisco-homeless-respond-to-tent-ban/#comment-533425>

    Homeless for 35 years…..? iI’s way to easy to bum around in SF.

      *
        Chad Russo
        June 28, 2016 at 7:12 pm
        <http://missionlocal.org/2016/06/san-francisco-homeless-respond-to-tent-ban/#comment-533427>

        “iI’s [sic] way to [sic] easy to bum around in SF.”

        Right, it’s a regular picnic. Except for the rape, hunger,
        sickness, police aggression, violence, freezing cold and wet parts.

 2.
    Stephen Francis
    July 1, 2016 at 6:07 am
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/06/san-francisco-homeless-respond-to-tent-ban/#comment-533493>

    It is already illegal to take-over public sidewalks for your own
    personal use – California Penal Code 647(e). it is ridiculous that
    you can’t safely walk down a sidewalk (or use them at all with
    strollers or wheelchairs). Park your motorcycle on the sidewalk, get
    a ticket. But it’s allowed to pitch a tent on the sidewalk, piss and
    sht all around, shoot-up and smoke meth across from schools. Only in
    the mission.

Comments are closed.

Full name required to post. For full details, read our Policy
<http://missionlocal.org/terms#comments>	
Get Mission Local's Weekly Newsletter

Search for:

<http://www.facebook.com/missionlocalsf/> <http://twitter.com/mlnow/>
<http://www.vimeo.com/missionlocal/>
<http://instagram.com/missionlocal/> <http://missionlocal.org/feed/>
Snaps from the Community <https://missionlocal.org/missionlocalsnaps/>


    Today's Mission

  *


            Classroom Volunteers Sought for Mission Schools
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/classroom-volunteers-sought-for-mission-schools/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 5:25 pm

  *


            SNAP: Margarita Party?
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-margarita-party/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 2:58 pm

  *


            Multikulti on Valencia Street to Close After 16 Years
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/multikulti-on-valencia-street-to-close-after-16-years/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 2:53 pm

  *


            Schools Respond to Post-Election Fears With March in SF
            Mission
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/schools-respond-to-post-election-fears-with-march-in-sf-mission/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 2:13 pm

  *


            ML News Wire: Off to Salvador with a Bag of Books,...
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/ml-news-wire-off-to-salvador-with-a-bag-of-books-la-victorias-planned-bar-and-more/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 1:13 pm

  *


            Man Injured in Shooting Near Dolores Park
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/man-injured-in-shooting-near-dolores-park/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 10:56 am

  *


            3-Car Crash in SF’s Mission Sends Man to Hospital
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/3-car-crash-in-mission-district-this-morning/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 9:59 am

  *


            Facing Ageism with Dance, Photography, Fashion at ODC
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/facing-ageism-with-dance-photography-fashion-at-odc/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 9:00 am

  *


            In Stunner, City Strikes Down Major Mission Project
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/in-stunner-city-strikes-down-major-mission-project/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 6:00 am

  *


            Standing Rock Fund Raiser Tonight at the Make Out Room
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/standing-rock-fund-raiser-tonight-at-the-make-out-room/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 5:20 pm

  *


            Dolores Park “Eco Pop-Up” Deemed Successful
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/dolores-park-eco-pop-up-deemed-successful/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 4:40 pm

  *


            Two Men Injured, One Arrested in SF Mission Shootout
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/two-men-injured-one-arrested-in-sf-mission-shootout/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 11:17 am

  *


            SNAP: Banking is so Boring
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-banking-is-so-boring/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 10:56 am

  *


            News from Around the Bay: Wrongful Evictions and More
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/news-from-around-the-bay-wrongful-evictions-and-more/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 9:13 am

  *


            A Week After Trump, Leftist San Francisco Bookstore Modern
            Times Closes...
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/a-week-after-trump-modern-times-closes-doors/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 6:00 am

  *


            Two Injured in SF’s Mission After Shots Fired on Harrison
            Street
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/two-injured-in-sfs-mission-after-shots-fired-on-harrison-street/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 5:35 pm

  *


            Five Violent Robberies, Two Arrests in SF Mission Over
            Veteran’s Day...
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/five-violent-robberies-two-arrests-in-sf-mission-over-veterans-day-weekend/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 2:25 pm

  *


            SF’s Urban Film Festival
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/sfs-urban-film-festival/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 12:01 pm

  *


            Notes of Post-Election Empathy Adorn BART Station Walls
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/notes-of-post-election-empathy-adorn-bart-station-walls/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 11:40 am

  *


            SNAP: Breakfast on the Go
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-breakfast-on-the-go/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 10:56 am

••••
Image
{{ title }}
{{ description }}

  * {{ comment.text }} - @{{ comment.from.username }}

{{ comment_count }} {{ comment_term }}{{ comment_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }} {{ like_count }} {{ like_term }}{{ like_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }}
ODC
A sneak peek of our children's chorus rehearsing for "The Velveteen
Rabbit"! See these talented kids onstage at the YBCA, Nov 25-Dec 11. Tix
at www.odc.dance/vr

  * Maya is in this! - @Berni Hui
  * - awesome - " "love . . . " - t-h-i-s - & Thanks So Much - ODC/Dance
    / ODC ! - @Catherine Kirsch

2 comments 4 likes
<https://ad.broadstreetads.com/click/81403>
Image
{{ title }}
{{ description }}

  * {{ comment.text }} - @{{ comment.from.username }}

{{ comment_count }} {{ comment_term }}{{ comment_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }} {{ like_count }} {{ like_term }}{{ like_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }}
Image
Dance Brigade's Dance Mission
Tonight! Don't sleep.
<https://ad.broadstreetads.com/click/85306>
Mission Pie ORDER <javascript:void(0)>
Bite Me SR <javascript:void(0)>
Image
{{ title }}
{{ description }}

  * {{ comment.text }} - @{{ comment.from.username }}

{{ comment_count }} {{ comment_term }}{{ comment_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }} {{ like_count }} {{ like_term }}{{ like_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }}
Image
Mission Comics and Art
Artist Brian Stelfreeze show his amazing skills with this cover to Black
Panther #8
<https://ad.broadstreetads.com/click/80991>
CASASF SR <javascript:void(0)>Body Manipulations SR <javascript:void(0)>

Copyright 2016, MissionLocal | Powered by WordPress and the CalPress
theme | Privacy Policy <http://missionlocal.org/terms#privacy> |
Register <http://missionlocal.org/wp-login.php?action=register> | Log in
<http://missionlocal.org/wp-login.php>

:)
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

Copied!
Facebook <http://missionlocal.org/#facebook>Twitter
<http://missionlocal.org/#twitter>Google+
<http://missionlocal.org/#google_plus>Pinterest
<http://missionlocal.org/#pinterest>Email
<http://missionlocal.org/#email>LinkedIn
<http://missionlocal.org/#linkedin>Reddit
<http://missionlocal.org/#reddit>Tumblr
<http://missionlocal.org/#tumblr>WordPress
<http://missionlocal.org/#wordpress>Google Gmail
<http://missionlocal.org/#google_gmail>WhatsApp
<http://missionlocal.org/#whatsapp>StumbleUpon
<http://missionlocal.org/#stumbleupon>AIM
<http://missionlocal.org/#aim>Amazon Wish List
<http://missionlocal.org/#amazon_wish_list>AOL Mail
<http://missionlocal.org/#aol_mail>App.net
<http://missionlocal.org/#app_net>Baidu
<http://missionlocal.org/#baidu>Balatarin
<http://missionlocal.org/#balatarin>BibSonomy
<http://missionlocal.org/#bibsonomy>Bitty Browser
<http://missionlocal.org/#bitty_browser>Blinklist
<http://missionlocal.org/#blinklist>Blogger Post
<http://missionlocal.org/#blogger_post>BlogMarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#blogmarks>Bookmarks.fr
<http://missionlocal.org/#bookmarks_fr>Box.net
<http://missionlocal.org/#box_net>BuddyMarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#buddymarks>Buffer
<http://missionlocal.org/#buffer>Care2 News
<http://missionlocal.org/#care2_news>CiteULike
<http://missionlocal.org/#citeulike>Copy Link
<http://missionlocal.org/#copy_link>Delicious
<http://missionlocal.org/#delicious>Design Float
<http://missionlocal.org/#design_float>Diary.Ru
<http://missionlocal.org/#diary_ru>Diaspora
<http://missionlocal.org/#diaspora>Digg
<http://missionlocal.org/#digg>diHITT
<http://missionlocal.org/#dihitt>Diigo
<http://missionlocal.org/#diigo>Douban
<http://missionlocal.org/#douban>Draugiem
<http://missionlocal.org/#draugiem>DZone
<http://missionlocal.org/#dzone>Evernote
<http://missionlocal.org/#evernote>Facebook Messenger
<http://missionlocal.org/#facebook_messenger>Fark
<http://missionlocal.org/#fark>Flipboard
<http://missionlocal.org/#flipboard>Folkd
<http://missionlocal.org/#folkd>Google Bookmarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#google_bookmarks>Google Classroom
<http://missionlocal.org/#google_classroom>Hacker News
<http://missionlocal.org/#hacker_news>Hatena
<http://missionlocal.org/#hatena>Instapaper
<http://missionlocal.org/#instapaper>Jamespot
<http://missionlocal.org/#jamespot>Kakao
<http://missionlocal.org/#kakao>Kik <http://missionlocal.org/#kik>Kindle
It <http://missionlocal.org/#kindle_it>Known
<http://missionlocal.org/#known>Line
<http://missionlocal.org/#line>LiveJournal
<http://missionlocal.org/#livejournal>Mail.Ru
<http://missionlocal.org/#mail_ru>Mendeley
<http://missionlocal.org/#mendeley>Meneame
<http://missionlocal.org/#meneame>Mixi
<http://missionlocal.org/#mixi>MySpace
<http://missionlocal.org/#myspace>Netlog
<http://missionlocal.org/#netlog>Netvouz
<http://missionlocal.org/#netvouz>NewsVine
<http://missionlocal.org/#newsvine>NUjij
<http://missionlocal.org/#nujij>Odnoklassniki
<http://missionlocal.org/#odnoklassniki>Oknotizie
<http://missionlocal.org/#oknotizie>Outlook.com
<http://missionlocal.org/#outlook_com>Pinboard
<http://missionlocal.org/#pinboard>Plurk
<http://missionlocal.org/#plurk>Pocket
<http://missionlocal.org/#pocket>Print
<http://missionlocal.org/#print>PrintFriendly
<http://missionlocal.org/#printfriendly>Protopage Bookmarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#protopage_bookmarks>Pusha
<http://missionlocal.org/#pusha>Qzone
<http://missionlocal.org/#qzone>Rediff MyPage
<http://missionlocal.org/#rediff>Renren
<http://missionlocal.org/#renren>Segnalo
<http://missionlocal.org/#segnalo>Sina Weibo
<http://missionlocal.org/#sina_weibo>SiteJot
<http://missionlocal.org/#sitejot>Skype
<http://missionlocal.org/#skype>Slashdot
<http://missionlocal.org/#slashdot>SMS
<http://missionlocal.org/#sms>Stumpedia
<http://missionlocal.org/#stumpedia>Svejo
<http://missionlocal.org/#svejo>Symbaloo Feeds
<http://missionlocal.org/#symbaloo_feeds>Telegram
<http://missionlocal.org/#telegram>Trello
<http://missionlocal.org/#trello>Tuenti
<http://missionlocal.org/#tuenti>Twiddla
<http://missionlocal.org/#twiddla>TypePad Post
<http://missionlocal.org/#typepad_post>Viadeo
<http://missionlocal.org/#viadeo>Viber
<http://missionlocal.org/#viber>VK <http://missionlocal.org/#vk>Wanelo
<http://missionlocal.org/#wanelo>Webnews
<http://missionlocal.org/#webnews>WeChat
<http://missionlocal.org/#wechat>Wykop
<http://missionlocal.org/#wykop>XING
<http://missionlocal.org/#xing>Yahoo Bookmarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#yahoo_bookmarks>Yahoo Mail
<http://missionlocal.org/#yahoo_mail>Yahoo Messenger
<http://missionlocal.org/#yahoo_messenger>Yoolink
<http://missionlocal.org/#yoolink>YouMob
<http://missionlocal.org/#youmob>Yummly
<http://missionlocal.org/#yummly>////
AddToAny <https://www.addtoany.com/>
Facebook

<http://missionlocal.org/#facebook>Twitter

<http://missionlocal.org/#twitter>Google+

<http://missionlocal.org/#google_plus>Pinterest

<http://missionlocal.org/#pinterest>Email

<http://missionlocal.org/#email>LinkedIn

<http://missionlocal.org/#linkedin>Reddit

<http://missionlocal.org/#reddit>Tumblr

<http://missionlocal.org/#tumblr>
Google Gmail

<http://missionlocal.org/#google_gmail>AOL Mail

<http://missionlocal.org/#aol_mail>Outlook.com

<http://missionlocal.org/#outlook_com>Yahoo Mail

<http://missionlocal.org/#yahoo_mail>Any email

<http://missionlocal.org/#email_form>Email app

<http://missionlocal.org/#email_form>
More…

