  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * The Cannifornian

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

The Mercury News

<http://www.mercurynews.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local

    <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * The Cannifornian

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>


        San Jose council OKs controversial homeless…
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/san-jose-council-oks-controversial-homeless-housing-project/>



Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/san-jose-council-oks-controversial-homeless-housing-project/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/san-jose-council-oks-controversial-homeless-housing-project/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/san-jose-council-oks-controversial-homeless-housing-project/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/san-jose-council-oks-controversial-homeless-housing-project/#print>
*

<#>

Trending:

  * Sherri Papini case
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/sherri-papini-consultant-asked-to-find-another-missing-california-mom/>

  * 49ers should’ve kept Smith
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/purdy-the-kap-vs-alex-argument-is-settled-and-its-become-obvious-the-49ers-made-the-wrong-choice/>

  * Kim K. to divorce?
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/is-kim-kardashian-plotting-to-divorce-kanye-west/>

  * Pitt vs. Jolie
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/brad-pitt-moves-to-seal-documents-in-angelina-jolie-custody-dispute/>

  * After cold snap, rain
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/bay-area-weather-after-cold-snap-rain-on-the-way/>

  * Bay Area poverty
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/more-bay-area-residents-struggling-than-poverty-statistics-indicate/>



Business <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>


  San Jose council OKs controversial homeless housing project


Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/san-jose-council-oks-controversial-homeless-housing-project/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/san-jose-council-oks-controversial-homeless-housing-project/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/san-jose-council-oks-controversial-homeless-housing-project/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/san-jose-council-oks-controversial-homeless-housing-project/#print>
*

The church on the proposed site has been razed.
The church on the proposed site has been razed.

By Ramona Giwargis <http://www.mercurynews.com/author/ramona-giwargis/>
| rgiwargis@bayareanewsgroup.com <mailto:rgiwargis@bayareanewsgroup.com>	
PUBLISHED: June 28, 2016 at 9:48 pm | UPDATED: August 12, 2016 at 12:06 am

SAN JOSE — A little girl stood before the council in a purple T-shirt
and told the city’s elected leaders she had slept in a cardboard box
under a highway overpass, while fretful homeowners clutched yellow signs
complaining that San Jose already does more than its neighbors to help
the homeless.

In the end, after a 15-hour meeting that stretched past 2 a.m.
Wednesday, the City Council made plodding progress on a host of
proposals aimed at easing one of San Jose’s most intractable problems at
a time when Silicon Valley’s soaring technology economy is widening the
gulf between rich and poor.

The council on an 8-1 vote upheld a 162-unit apartment complex at 2500
Senter Road for chronically homeless residents, denying an appeal from
opponents who threatened to sue San Jose over potential loss to their
home values.

The council also approved setting aside $5 million for a program that
provides funding for capital improvements to landlords who accept
referrals to house homeless veterans. And the council unanimously
extended a policy that allows churches to house homeless people without
permits for another year. City leaders agreed to expand the program to
allow up to 30 people to stay in one location for 90 days.

But the council in a unanimous vote backed away from approving a project
that would have allowed temporary modular homes for up to 102 homeless
people for 15 years on a six-acre Evans Lane site in Willow Glen, voting
instead to study using it for a larger permanent housing project. And
the council passed on a proposal to sanction a supervised tent
campground, with city officials saying they weren’t successful in
finding a suitable operator or a site for an encampment.

“I think we made progress Tuesday night,” said Jennifer Loving,
executive director of Destination: Home, a nonprofit that works to end
homelessness. “We’ve never had a group of more committed local elected
leaders earnestly looking at solving this problem. But we still have a
lot of fear that solutions to homelessness will look like the problems
of homelessness. The real work we have ahead of us is to remove the fear.”

Loving said if San Jose is serious about ending homelessness, then “we
are going to have lots of tough conversations in the future about new
projects and where homeless people will live.”

The most contentious of the proposals was the Senter Road project, with
Councilman Tam Nguyen, whose district includes the project site, casting
the dissenting vote. Councilmen Manh Nguyen and Johnny Khamis were absent.

Nguyen echoed concerns from residents who said the project was “rushed”
with little outreach, the site is too close to neighbors and could
increase crime and blight in the area.

“Common sense tells us this will end in disaster,” said nearby homeowner
Jonathan Fleming. “They will drink, do drugs and roam our streets.”

But the project, which will be built on county-owned land at no cost to
San Jose, includes a dozen on-site employees, 24-hour security and
access to counseling and health services. Advocates for the homeless say
permanent supportive housing could actually reduce crime and 84 percent
of people placed in projects like Senter Road stay housed. The city’s
Planning Commission gave its unanimous approval in April.

“We have a good operator, we have good amenities and we can make this a
benefit to the community,” said Councilman Raul Peralez. “We have a good
project.”

Vice Mayor Rose Herrera encouraged the project managers to regularly
meet with neighbors to discuss concerns — one of Nguyen’s ideas — and
asked that more city services and police resources be dedicated to
neighborhoods that house the poor.

Though Tam Nguyen opposed the Senter Road project, he urged the council
to give legal tent cities a chance. He slept in one in Portland earlier
this year and said it could work in San Jose. But Mayor Sam Liccardo
said the city would better serve the homeless with other ideas.

“It seems to me we should focus our energies on all the other
initiatives we have,” said Liccardo, adding that council members pushing
the idea should find sites in their districts.

With the Evans Lane modular home proposal, Councilman Pierluigi
Oliverio, who represents the district, convinced his colleagues to study
other housing options. The city’s housing staff will bring alternative
options to a council meeting on Aug. 16.

“There’s been one concept floated and there have been deep concerns,”
Oliverio said.

Despite the unanimous approval, some city leaders said the move sends
“mixed messages” to residents. Under increasing public pressure, the
council over the past year has pushed for quick solutions to house
homeless people — yet they put off a project that could be ready in
about a year to study longer-term alternatives.

The program that allows churches to house homeless people without
permits transformed Yolanda Estrada’s life. The 50-year-old had been
homeless for three years before she started sleeping inside three South
Bay churches this year. Now she’s on her way to moving into an apartment.

“My self-esteem was raised up and these people genuinely care about me,”
Estrada said. “I felt a sense of belonging.”

Contact Ramona Giwargis at 408-920-5705. Follow her at
Twitter.com/ramonagiwargis <http://twitter.com/ramonagiwargis>.

A unified effort on homelessness

With 70 other news organizations, the Mercury News is participating in a
Bay Area-wide effort to raise awareness about solutions to homelessness
in the region.
Online: See more stories and photos at
www.mercurynews.com/bay-area-homeless
<http://www.mercurynews.com/bay-area-homeless>
Social media: Read and post with the hashtag #SFHomelessProject

Review: Samsung Fixes the TV Remote
<http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>

Sponsored Content


        Review: Samsung Fixes the TV Remote
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>


By Samsung
<http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>

Geoffrey A. Fowler tests Samsung’s 2016 TVs, which have one smart
clicker to control all our cable boxes, disc players, video streamers
and apps

  * Tags: 
  * California Governor
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/california-governor/>

Ramona Giwargis, City of San Jose city hall reporter, San Jose Mercury
News, for her Wordpress profile. (Michael Malone/Bay Area News Group)	


Ramona Giwargis <http://www.mercurynews.com/author/ramona-giwargis/>

Ramona Giwargis is the San Jose City Hall reporter at The Mercury News.
After stints in Eureka, Salinas and Merced, Giwargis returned to San
Jose to cover local government and politics for her hometown newspaper.
Giwargis won numerous awards for investigative journalism and is a
graduate of San Jose State University.
// Follow Ramona Giwargis @ramonagiwargis
<https://twitter.com/ramonagiwargis>
Subscribe Today! All Access Digital offer for just 99 cents!
<https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dsssubscribe.aspx>
 
You Might Also Like

  *
    Building Successful Salespeople: 7 Skills You Can Teach Building
    Successful Salespeople: 7 Skills You Can Teach Salesforce
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/314701428;142502725;t>
  *
    How I Finally Understood My 401(k)… in 10 minutes How I Finally
    Understood My 401(k)… in 10 minutes Mint.com
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/trackclk/N9515.186294OUTBRAININC0/B8198435.127074735;dc_trk_aid=300209997;dc_trk_cid=58834128;dc_lat=;dc_rdid=;tag_for_child_directed_treatment=>

  *
    Hollywood Mourns The Death of This Legend! Hollywood Mourns The
    Death of This Legend! Marble Buzz
    <http://marblebuzz.com/celebrities-you-didnt-know-passed-away/?utm_source=Outbrain&utm_medium=248358&utm_term=QH-BASE&utm_content=67699340&utm_campaign=Celeb-Legends>


  *
    Reach data quickly—anywhere, anytime—with the Intel® Xeon® processor
    E5 v4 family Reach data quickly—anywhere, anytime—with the Intel®…
    Intel Servers Rock
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/310019257;137043392;v>
  *
    10 Best Rewards Cards: Get $150 Bonus Cashback 10 Best Rewards
    Cards: Get $150 Bonus Cashback GET.com
    <https://www.get.com/credit-cards-best-bonus-offers/?ad=outbrain_bonus_150&utm_medium=cpc&utm_source=outbrain_248358&utm_campaign=outbrain_bonus_150_69875867&oclid=0b2588a4aea194e22f2b67987b34df6a>

  *
    Tips on How To Become a Manager Tips on How To Become a Manager CAL
    STATE MONTEREY BAY
    <https://mba.csumb.edu/blog/tips-on-how-to-become-a-manager?utm_source=Outbrain&utm_medium=Online%20Media&utm_campaign=CSUMB_Native>


  *
    Tim Tebow dumped by former Miss Universe refusing sex Tim Tebow
    dumped by former Miss Universe refusing sex MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2015/11/30/tim-tebow-dumped-by-former-miss-universe-refusing-sex/>

  *
    Melania Trump’s nude photos: Who leaked them? Melania Trump’s nude
    photos: Who leaked them? MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/08/01/melania-trumps-nude-photos-who-leaked-them/>

  *
    Ask Amy: My new daughter-in-law doesn’t know about this toxic woman
    Ask Amy: My new daughter-in-law doesn’t know about… MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/10/13/ask-amy-toxic-in-law-forms-an-alliance/>


Recommended by<http://www.outbrain.com/what-is/default/en>

Sign up for our newsletters!

Subscribe <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
Follow Us

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>


    Most Popular

 1. Oakland fire aftermath: Evictions as artists’ worst fears come true

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/evictions-in-ghost-ships-wake-artists-worst-fears-coming-true/>

 2. Kim Kardashian is plotting to divorce Kanye West, one report says

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/is-kim-kardashian-plotting-to-divorce-kanye-west/>

 3. San Jose: Firefighters knock down abandoned home fire, suspect squatter

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-jose-firefighters-knock-down-abandoned-home-fire-suspect-squatter/>

 4. Oakland warehouse fire: Officials release names of 9 more victims

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/oakland-warehouse-fire-search-for-victims-85-percent-complete-death-toll-still-36/>

 5. Purdy: It’s now obvious the 49ers should have kept Smith, not
    Kaepernick

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/purdy-the-kap-vs-alex-argument-is-settled-and-its-become-obvious-the-49ers-made-the-wrong-choice/>

 6. Eddy Lepp free after 10-year sentence for growing marijuana

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/cannabis-convict-eddy-lepp-free-after-long-prison-term/>

 7. Sherri Papini ‘consultant’ asked to find another missing California mom

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/sherri-papini-consultant-asked-to-find-another-missing-california-mom/>

 8. Oakland: Artists, restaurant at odds over Salt Lick warehouse
    following deadly Ghost Ship blaze

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-artists-restaurant-at-odds-over-salt-lick-warehouse/>



    More in Real Estate

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/evictions-in-ghost-ships-wake-artists-worst-fears-coming-true/>

    In the few days following the Ghost Ship tragedy, artists' fears of
    a backlash against un-permitted living spaces are coming to fruition
    with some reporting they have been served eviction notices.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/evictions-in-ghost-ships-wake-artists-worst-fears-coming-true/>



              Oakland fire aftermath: Evictions as artists’ worst fears
              come true
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/evictions-in-ghost-ships-wake-artists-worst-fears-coming-true/>


    December 07, 2016, 7:33 pm

    In the few days following the Ghost Ship tragedy, artists’ fears of
    a backlash against un-permitted living spaces are coming to fruition
    with some reporting they have been served eviction notices.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/housing-groups-sue-fannie-mae-for-failure-to-take-care-of-foreclosed-properties-in-communities-of-color/>

    Foreclosed homes in majority African-American and Latino
    neighborhoods were more likely to have untended yards, debris and
    broken windows, which affected crime and property values in the
    area, suit alleges.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/housing-groups-sue-fannie-mae-for-failure-to-take-care-of-foreclosed-properties-in-communities-of-color/>



              Housing groups sue Fannie Mae over foreclosed Bay Area
              properties in communities of color
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/housing-groups-sue-fannie-mae-for-failure-to-take-care-of-foreclosed-properties-in-communities-of-color/>


    December 07, 2016, 3:52 pm

    Foreclosed homes in majority African-American and Latino
    neighborhoods were more likely to have untended yards, debris and
    broken windows, which affected crime and property values in the
    area, suit alleges.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/more-bay-area-residents-struggling-than-poverty-statistics-indicate/>

    Close to 30 percent of the Bay Area's residents, hit by high housing
    costs, aren't able to make ends meet, according to a study released
    Wednesday.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/more-bay-area-residents-struggling-than-poverty-statistics-indicate/>



              More Bay Area residents struggling than poverty statistics
              indicate
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/more-bay-area-residents-struggling-than-poverty-statistics-indicate/>


    December 07, 2016, 2:11 pm

    Close to 30 percent of the Bay Area’s residents, hit by high housing
    costs, aren’t able to make ends meet, according to a study released
    Wednesday.
    75

    <#comments>

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/after-oakland-warehouse-fire-calls-come-for-more-inspectors/>

    “We have a shortage of staff at the enforcement level and in the
    fire level,” said Councilman Noel Gallo, who represents the
    Fruitvale district where the fire happened. “We’ve been trying to
    merge the building inspectors with the fire inspectors.”
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/after-oakland-warehouse-fire-calls-come-for-more-inspectors/>



              After Oakland warehouse fire, calls come for more
              inspectors
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/after-oakland-warehouse-fire-calls-come-for-more-inspectors/>


    December 07, 2016, 12:49 pm

    “We have a shortage of staff at the enforcement level and in the
    fire level,” said Councilman Noel Gallo, who represents the
    Fruitvale district where the fire happened. “We’ve been trying to
    merge the building inspectors with the fire inspectors.”

  * Member Services <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
  * News Alerts <https://digioh.com/BANG/general?source=TakeAction>

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>

  * Subscribe

    <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx?pid=22>

    <#>
      o Manage Your Subscription <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
      o All Access Subscriptions <http://www.bayareanewsaccess.com/>
      o Today’s e-Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
      o Newsletter Sign-Up <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
      o Mobile Apps <http://www.mercurynews.com/mobile/>
  * Contact Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/contact-us/>

    <#>
      o Corrections <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/corrections/>
      o Reprints <http://www.mercurynews.com/reprints/>
      o Archive Search <http://www.mercurynews.com/archive-search/>
      o Lottery <http://www.mercurynews.com/lottery/>
  * Classifieds

    <http://marketplace.bayareanewsgroup.com/marketplace/>

    <#>
      o Autos <http://www.norcaldrives.com/>
      o Jobs <http://www.mercurynews.com/jobs/>
      o Real Estate <http://realestate.mercurynews.com/>
      o Place an Obituary
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
      o Place a Legal Ad
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/legals/index.html>
  * Advertise With Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/advertise/>

    <#>
      o Today’s Ads <http://ads.mercurynews.com/>
      o Weekly Ads <http://www.mercurynews.com/weekly-ads/>
      o Local Guide <http://mylocal.mercurynews.com/>
      o Fry’s Ad
        <http://newspaperads.mercurynews.com/FSI/tiles.aspx?advid=200177&loc=53824>
      o Public Notices <http://capublicnotice.com/>

  * © 2016 Digital First Media <http://www.digitalfirstmedia.com/>
  * Site Map <http://www.mercurynews.com/sitemap.xml>
  * Copyright <http://www.mercurynews.com/copyright/>
  * Privacy Policy <http://www.mercurynews.com/privacy-policy/>
  * Arbitration
    <http://local.digitalfirstmedia.com/common/dfm/arbitration.pdf>
  * Powered by WordPress.com VIP <https://vip.wordpress.com/>
  * Bay Area News Group

    <http://www.bayareanewsgroup.com/>


      Email This Article

Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel

<#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

Quantcast
:)
