<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco>
Subscribe to San Francisco Magazine
<https://online.icnfull.com/lxp/?action=SUBSCRIPTION>

  * Eat & Drink

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink>
      o Restaurants

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink/restaurants>
      o Wine & Spirits

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink/wine-and-spirits>
      o Ingredient

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink/ingredient>
      o Clubs & Bars

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink/clubs-and-bars>
  * News & Features

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features>
      o Politics

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/politics>
      o Profiles

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/profiles>
      o Reporter's Notebook

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/reporters-notebook>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/real-estate>
      o Tech World

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/tech-world>
  * Travel

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/travel>
      o Weekend Escapes

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/travel/weekend-escapes>
      o California Destinations

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/travel/california-destinations>
      o Further Afield

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/travel/further-afield>
  * Culture

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/culture>
      o Reviews

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/culture/reviews>
      o Galleries & Performance

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/culture/galleries-and-performance>
      o Music

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/culture/music>
  * Style

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/style>
      o Fashion

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/style/fashion>
      o Shopping

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/style/shopping>
      o Beauty

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/style/beauty>
  * Home

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/home-life>
      o Architecture

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/home-life/architecture>
      o Interiors

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/home-life/interiors>
  * City Life

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/city-life>
  * Scene

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/scene>
  * Videos

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/videos>

  * Cityguide
    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-franciscos-cityguide/digital-edition>
  * Brides <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-california>
  * Guide to Private Schools
    <http://modernluxury.com/bay-area-guide-to-private-schools/digital-edition>
  * Events <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/events>
  * Charity Datebook
    <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-san-francisco/digital-edition>
  * Interiors California
    <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-california/digital-edition>

San Francisco Magazine facebook
<http://www.facebook.com/SanFranciscoMagazine>
San Francisco Magazine twitter <http://twitter.com/sanfranmag>
San Francisco Magazine instagram <http://instagram.com/sfmagazine>
San Francisco Magazine apps

  * iPhone

    <http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/san-francisco-magazine/id370141813?mt=8>
  * iPad

    <http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/san-francisco-magazine-hd/id370424626?mt=8>
  * Droid

    <https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.modernluxury.sanf&feature=sear...>


    Our Publications

  * Aspen

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/aspen>
      o Aspen

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/aspen>
  * Atlanta

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/atlanta>
      o The Atlantan

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/atlanta>
      o Jezebel

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/jezebel>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings Atlanta

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-atlanta>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Atlanta

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/interiors-atlanta>
      o Men's Book Atlanta

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/mens-book-atlanta>
      o Charity & Social Datebook Atlanta

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-atlanta/digital-edition>
  * Chicago

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/chicago>
      o CS

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/chicago>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings Chicago

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-chicago>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Chicago

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/interiors-chicago>
      o Men's Book Chicago

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/mens-book-chicago>
      o NS

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/chicagos-north-shore>
      o Modern Luxury Brides North Shore

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-north-shore>
      o Charity and Social Datebook Chicago

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-chicago/digital-edition>
  * Dallas

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/dallas>
      o Modern Luxury Dallas

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/dallas>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings Dallas

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-dallas>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Texas

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/interiors-texas>
      o Charity and Social Datebook Dallas

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-dallas/digital-edition>
  * The Hamptons

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/the-hamptons>
      o Beach

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/the-hamptons>
  * Hawai'i

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/hawaii>
      o Modern Luxury Hawaii

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/hawaii>
  * Houston

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/houston>
      o Houston

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/houston>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings Houston

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-houston>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Texas

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/interiors-texas>
      o Charity and Social Datebook Houston

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-houston/digital-edition>
  * Los Angeles

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/angeleno>
      o Angeleno

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/los-angeles>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-california>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/interiors-california>
      o Charity and Social Datebook Los Angeles

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-los-angeles/digital-edition>
  * Miami

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/miami>
      o Miami

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/miami>
      o Modern Luxury Weedings South Florida

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-south-florida>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors South Florida

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/interiors-south-florida>
  * New York

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/manhattan>
      o Manhattan

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/manhattan>
  * Orange County

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/orange-county>
      o Modern Luxury Orange County

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/orange-county>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-california>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/interiors-california>
      o Charity & Social Datebook Orange County

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-orange-county/digital-edition>
  * San Diego

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-diego>
      o Modern Luxury San Diego

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-diego>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings California

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-california>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/interiors-california>
      o Charity & Social Datebook San Diego

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-san-diego/digital-edition>
  * San Francisco

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco>
      o San Francisco

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-california>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/interiors-california>
      o CityGuide

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-franciscos-cityguide/digital-edition>
      o Charity & Social Datebook San Francisco

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-san-francisco/digital-edition>
  * Scottsdale

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/scottsdale>
      o Scottsdale

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/scottsdale>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Scottsdale

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/interiors-scottsdale>
  * Silicon Valley

    <http://modernluxury.com/silicon-valley>
      o Modern Luxury Silicon Valley

        <http://modernluxury.com/silicon-valley>
  * Washington, D.C.

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/washington-dc>
      o DC

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/washington-dc>
      o Charity and Social Datebook DC

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-dc/digital-edition>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings Washington

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-washington>


    Scene In…

<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/scene/the-list-party/img239628>
The List Release Party
<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/scene/the-list-release-party>
See All Photos >>
<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/scene/the-list-release-party>


    Now Playing

<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/videos/fallfest-2015>
<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/digital-edition>
Home <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco> › News and Features
<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features> ›
Supervisor Puts Tent Encampments on Notice, But Where Will the Residents
Go?
<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/story/supervisor-puts-tent-encampments-notice-where-will-the-residents-go>
›
 266  24  168 Google +0  0


  Supervisor Puts Tent Encampments on Notice, But Where Will the
  Residents Go?

Lamar Anderson | Photo: Lamar Anderson | June 29, 2016

For Mark Farrell's ballot initiative to actually work, the city needs
more housing. He hasn’t figured that part out yet.

Tents along Shotwell Street in April.

 

*On a clear evening* in May, a group of Mission district merchants,
neighbors, and first responders gathered to discuss the problem of tent
encampments. The phones at the SFPD’s Mission Station had been ringing
off the hook, Captain Daniel Perea told the room, with nearly 6,000
calls about the homeless in the last three months alone. The meeting
started off with momentum. "Here's how neighbors can help: We need
written statements from merchants to include in police reports," Perea
told crowd members as they sipped wine and munched on pastries brought
along by Tartine's Vinny Eng. "Describe what people are doing and what
they are wearing." But as the meeting wore on and neighbors piled on
questions—"How is this permitted to keep existing every day?”—Perea
seemed to acknowledge the futility of enforcing the law on tent dwellers
who, when ordered to move, simply return a few hours later. "What we are
accomplishing is displacement," he said.

One month later, District 2 Supervisor Mark Farrell announced his
intention to make that displacement permanent. Last week, Farrell—joined
by Supervisors Malia Cohen, Katy Tang, and Scott Wiener—added a measure
to the November ballot that would give the city a new protocol for
clearing tents. The proposed addition to the Police Code, called the
Promotion of Safe and Open Sidewalks
<http://sfgov.org/elections/sites/default/files/Documents/candidates/Promotion%20of%20Safe%20and%20Open%20Sidewalks%20Legal%20Text.pdf>,
allows officials to clear an encampment and cart away people's
belongings to storage—provided that they are given 24 hours notice and
that housing or shelter is available for the members of the encampment.
No one can be forced to go to a shelter, of course; you could think of
this approach as assistance by threat. "We're trying to create an
incentive system where people will go into housing or shelter,” Farrell
explains. "It's available; it's your choice not to go, but we are going
to take the encampment down after a period of time." 

There are many rubs to this effort. The first one is that there simply
aren’t enough housing or shelter units available to people who are
currently camping out on the streets. A back-of-the-envelope estimate
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/overview/> in the
/Chronicle/ puts the city's "hard-core street population" at about
1,750, but the number of year-round shelter beds maybe cracks 1,300, by
our rough tally. Farrell acknowledges the short supply of housing. "This
measure is not a panacea," he says. "It's ultimately about building
housing exits"—that is, permanent landing spots for homeless people
outside the shelter system. To do that, Farrell is cosponsoring a
proposal for another November ballot measure, a three-quarter-percent
sales tax
<https://sfgov.legistar.com/LegislationDetail.aspx?ID=2739034&GUID=059AC2A8-B756-493D-B008-FEA8D6C00F15>
that would send $150 million to the General Fund annually. The idea is
to budget $50 million of that for homeless outreach and housing exits
every year. It's a windfall that the newly minted Department of
Homelessness and Supportive Housing very much wants, but it's still
theoretical, and DHSH director Jeff Kositsky
<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/story/the-mayor-of-tent-city>
says it's too soon to say how best the money would be spent. Which means
Farrell's tent-sweeping measure could sit on the books for a few years
before it sends anyone into a meaningful housing exit.

A patchwork of existing laws already adds up to a virtual ban on tent
encampments in most cases; this measure goes a step further and makes
them explicitly illegal. The main thing it does, though, is set up the
parameters of when and how to take down encampments. Having a clear
guideline in itself could be useful, and perhaps prevent the kind of
controversy that San Franciscans experienced in the run-up to the Super
Bowl, when the Department of Public Works and other agencies kept
shuffling tents around
<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/story/san-francisco-really-hiding-its-homeless-division-street-the-super-bowl>—then,
a month later, proceeded to demolish
<http://www.sfgate.com/bayarea/article/City-begins-sweeping-out-homeless-encampment-on-6862853.php>
the infamous camp along Division Street.

*
Think of Farrell's tent measure* as the stick to Supervisor David
Campos's carrot. On June 14 Campos spurred the board to pass an
ordinance calling for six more Homeless Navigation Centers
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/clock-ticking-sf-create-six-navigation-centers-within-two-years/>—which
are model shelters that pack in services aimed at getting people into
housing, but are still, at the end of the day, only shelters. (Plus, the
law permits converting existing shelters into Navigation Centers, so the
overall number of beds doesn't necessarily grow.) And unlike the
inaugural Navigation Center, the new ones don't have to have housing
exits guaranteed. Which all adds up to more of the same: Without
additional permanent housing to navigate people into, the vaunted
"navigation center" method loses its meaning
<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/story/david-campos-calls-five-more-homeless-navigation-centers-without-any-housing-nav>. 

So on one end you have moderates like Farrell shooing people off of the
streets, and on the other end you have progressives corralling them into
Navigation Centers. Both measures address parts of the machine that must
function in order to get people into housing—but both leave the most
crucial aspect of the system, the housing part, unresolved. And the
housing part is where the city is hurting, as Coalition on Homelessness
executive director Jennifer Friedenbach points out. Right now there are
696 units of permanent supportive housing for homeless people in the
pipeline for 2016 to 2022. By her count, that's "about 25 percent of
what was produced over the past six years." 

Back when San Francisco had a Redevelopment Agency, the city saw $40 to
$50 million per year allocated toward overall affordable housing
production, recalls Don Falk, CEO of the Tenderloin Neighborhood
Development Center. That money is now gone, about half of it replaced by
the Housing Trust Fund. Could the potential $50 million in sales tax
revenue make up for lost funds? When we put this question to Kositsky,
the new homelessness department head, he laughs. "From your mouth to
God's ears," he says. The money wouldn't go far if the city spent it
subsidizing construction of new housing, which might cost the city
$250,000 per unit just to get it built, by Falk's estimate—and that's
before you subsidize anyone's rent or add support services. Instead, the
$50 million could go toward things like rent subsidies in private
housing, the Rapid Rehousing program, building more Navigation Centers,
and expanding the Homeless Outreach Team. "The need is obviously great,"
says Kositsky. "$50 million would go a long way."

But setting up homeless people in existing buildings—good idea though it
may be—just kicks the can down the road in another way, Falk points out.
"If we take existing housing and make it available to homeless people,
it's not available to other low-income people," he says. "There's a
shell game aspect to it. If we don't build new affordable housing, then
we're just housing person A at the same time that we're denying housing
to person B." 

That's the newly opened Civic Center Navigation Center in a nutshell.
The Navigation Center opened yesterday
<http://www.sfgate.com/bayarea/article/SF-opens-new-full-service-shelter-to-get-homeless-8330473.php> in
a formerly seedy residential hotel with a ceremony attended by Mayor Ed
Lee. A shelter loaded up with services may be a big improvement over the
inhospitable living conditions at the SRO it replaced, but it
essentially traded one population on the skids for another. "Unless we
get at the root of the problem, which is building more permanent housing
for lower-income people and homeless people, we're not going to have
enough of these exits," says Falk.

Without a replenished pipeline of new places to house people, Farrell's
tent-clearing measure starts to look like more of the same tent
rearranging—just on a longer timetable than the way the cops are doing
it. Instead of tents returning in a matter of hours, maybe they pop back
up in a few days or weeks, after their residents tire of living in a
shelter without their stuff. Asked about that scenario, Farrell
acknowledges that it's a possibility. But he sticks to his talking
points. "We want to incentivize people to stay in housing and make it
less convenient for them to be in tent encampments," he says. Later, he
acknowledges the very visible flaw in his premise: "This measure is not
going to take away tent encampments overnight. But it creates a
framework that hopefully, sooner rather than later, the city can use to
get these individuals into shelter or housing.” 

Housing that still remains to be seen.

/*
Update*: This story originally stated that tent encampments are already
illegal in San Francisco. In fact, though tent encampments violate the
law in most cases, there are still some technical exceptions, which the
current ballot measure would eliminate. We regret the error. /

 

/Have feedback? Email us at //letterssf@sanfranmag.com/
<mailto:letterssf@sanfranmag.com>/
Email Lamar Anderson at //landerson@modernluxury.com/
<mailto:landerson@modernluxury.com>/
Follow us on Twitter //@sanfranmag/ <http://twitter.com/sanfranmag>/
Follow Lamar Anderson at //@srslynow/ <http://twitter.com/srslynow>

 

 

  * About Us <http://www.modernluxury.com/advertise>
  * Advertise <http://www.modernluxury.com/advertise>
  * Contact Us <http://www.modernluxury.com/contact>
  * Careers <http://www.modernluxury.com/careers>
  * Privacy Policy <http://www.modernluxury.com/privacy_policy>
  * Sign Up <http://www.modernluxury.com/signup>
  * Subscribe <https://online.icnfull.com/lxp/?action=SUBSCRIPTION>
  * RSS <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/rss.xml>
  * Our Publications <http://www.modernluxury.com/our-publications>
  * Custom Publishing <http://customcontent.modernluxury.com/>

  |   © Modern Luxury   |   Terms of Service
<http://www.modernluxury.com/terms_of_use>

<#>

<#>

<#>

<#>

<#>

<#><#><#><#><#>
