<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco>
Subscribe to San Francisco Magazine
<https://online.icnfull.com/lxp/?action=SUBSCRIPTION>

  * Eat & Drink

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink>
      o Restaurants

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink/restaurants>
      o Wine & Spirits

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink/wine-and-spirits>
      o Ingredient

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink/ingredient>
      o Clubs & Bars

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink/clubs-and-bars>
  * News & Features

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features>
      o Politics

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/politics>
      o Profiles

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/profiles>
      o Reporter's Notebook

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/reporters-notebook>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/real-estate>
      o Tech World

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/tech-world>
  * Travel

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/travel>
      o Weekend Escapes

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/travel/weekend-escapes>
      o California Destinations

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/travel/california-destinations>
      o Further Afield

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/travel/further-afield>
  * Culture

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/culture>
      o Reviews

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/culture/reviews>
      o Galleries & Performance

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/culture/galleries-and-performance>
      o Music

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/culture/music>
  * Style

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/style>
      o Fashion

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/style/fashion>
      o Shopping

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/style/shopping>
      o Beauty

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/style/beauty>
  * Home

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/home-life>
      o Architecture

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/home-life/architecture>
      o Interiors

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/home-life/interiors>
  * City Life

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/city-life>
  * Scene

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/scene>
  * Videos

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/videos>

  * Cityguide
    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-franciscos-cityguide/digital-edition>
  * Brides <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-california>
  * Guide to Private Schools
    <http://modernluxury.com/bay-area-guide-to-private-schools/digital-edition>
  * Events <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/events>
  * Charity Datebook
    <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-san-francisco/digital-edition>
  * Interiors California
    <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-california/digital-edition>

San Francisco Magazine facebook
<http://www.facebook.com/SanFranciscoMagazine>
San Francisco Magazine twitter <http://twitter.com/sanfranmag>
San Francisco Magazine instagram <http://instagram.com/sfmagazine>
San Francisco Magazine apps

  * iPhone

    <http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/san-francisco-magazine/id370141813?mt=8>
  * iPad

    <http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/san-francisco-magazine-hd/id370424626?mt=8>
  * Droid

    <https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.modernluxury.sanf&feature=sear...>


    Our Publications

  * Aspen

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/aspen>
      o Aspen

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/aspen>
  * Atlanta

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/atlanta>
      o The Atlantan

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/atlanta>
      o Jezebel

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/jezebel>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings Atlanta

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-atlanta>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Atlanta

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/interiors-atlanta>
      o Men's Book Atlanta

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/mens-book-atlanta>
      o Charity & Social Datebook Atlanta

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-atlanta/digital-edition>
  * Chicago

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/chicago>
      o CS

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/chicago>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings Chicago

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-chicago>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Chicago

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/interiors-chicago>
      o Men's Book Chicago

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/mens-book-chicago>
      o NS

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/chicagos-north-shore>
      o Modern Luxury Brides North Shore

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-north-shore>
      o Charity and Social Datebook Chicago

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-chicago/digital-edition>
  * Dallas

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/dallas>
      o Modern Luxury Dallas

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/dallas>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings Dallas

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-dallas>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Texas

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/interiors-texas>
      o Charity and Social Datebook Dallas

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-dallas/digital-edition>
  * The Hamptons

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/the-hamptons>
      o Beach

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/the-hamptons>
  * Hawai'i

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/hawaii>
      o Modern Luxury Hawaii

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/hawaii>
  * Houston

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/houston>
      o Houston

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/houston>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings Houston

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-houston>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Texas

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/interiors-texas>
      o Charity and Social Datebook Houston

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-houston/digital-edition>
  * Los Angeles

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/angeleno>
      o Angeleno

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/los-angeles>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-california>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/interiors-california>
      o Charity and Social Datebook Los Angeles

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-los-angeles/digital-edition>
  * Miami

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/miami>
      o Miami

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/miami>
      o Modern Luxury Weedings South Florida

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-south-florida>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors South Florida

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/interiors-south-florida>
  * New York

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/manhattan>
      o Manhattan

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/manhattan>
  * Orange County

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/orange-county>
      o Modern Luxury Orange County

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/orange-county>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-california>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/interiors-california>
      o Charity & Social Datebook Orange County

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-orange-county/digital-edition>
  * San Diego

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-diego>
      o Modern Luxury San Diego

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-diego>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings California

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-california>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/interiors-california>
      o Charity & Social Datebook San Diego

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-san-diego/digital-edition>
  * San Francisco

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco>
      o San Francisco

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-california>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/interiors-california>
      o CityGuide

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-franciscos-cityguide/digital-edition>
      o Charity & Social Datebook San Francisco

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-san-francisco/digital-edition>
  * Scottsdale

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/scottsdale>
      o Scottsdale

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/scottsdale>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Scottsdale

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/interiors-scottsdale>
  * Silicon Valley

    <http://modernluxury.com/silicon-valley>
      o Modern Luxury Silicon Valley

        <http://modernluxury.com/silicon-valley>
  * Washington, D.C.

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/washington-dc>
      o DC

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/washington-dc>
      o Charity and Social Datebook DC

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-dc/digital-edition>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings Washington

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-washington>


    Scene In…

<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/scene/the-list-party/img239628>
The List Release Party
<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/scene/the-list-release-party>
See All Photos >>
<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/scene/the-list-release-party>


    Now Playing

<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/videos/fallfest-2015>
<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/digital-edition>
Home <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco> › News and
Features/Tech World
<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/tech-world>
› Insiders Admit That the Proposed 'Tech Tax' Isn't Actually
Plausible—It's Political Payback
<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/story/insiders-admit-the-proposed-tech-tax-isnt-actually-plausible-its-political-payba>
›
 2159  773  1151 Google +0  0


  Insiders Admit That the Proposed 'Tech Tax' Isn't Actually
  Plausible—It's Political Payback

Joe Eskenazi | Photo: Screengrab via Silicon Valley/HBO | June 29, 2016

Also: It's doomed.

 Payback is a bitch...

 

*You may have read* in the /Chronicle/
<http://www.sfgate.com/politics/article/3-SF-Supervisors-move-to-put-tech-tax-on-November-8330876.php> this
morning about three progressive supervisors' cunning plan to put a
measure on the November ballot that would tax tech companies, and then
use the proceeds to benefit homeless services and affordable housing.
It's a complex proposal—but don't even bother trying to understand it.
According to multiple progressives with knowledge of the supes'
strategy, it's not so much piece of legislation as a political middle
finger raised at rival moderates on the board.

Getting this measure <https://t.co/xw9FGPVuqd>—which was championed by
Supervisor Eric Mar and co-sponsored by Supervisors Aaron Peskin and
David Campos—onto the ballot would require the assent of six
supervisors. Had Mar and Co. gotten their act together before June 21,
it would only have required four supervisors to make the cut for
November. Six supervisors, we are told, will all but certainly not
support this measure. Barring unforeseen lunacy, San Franciscans will
not be voting on this. 

And yet, even if we /were/ to vote on it, the measure as written would
require approval from two-thirds of the electorate. Pollsters have
confirmed that tech companies evoke strong feelings in San Francisco
voters, many of whom doubt they're "paying their fair share." But you
would have an easier time talking the Giants into painting AT&T Park’s
foul poles Dodger blue than getting 66.7 percent of San Franciscans to
support this particular tax. So, if you’re keeping score, a measure that
won’t be getting on the ballot is written in a manner that would doom it
to certain electoral defeat—and missed a crucial submission deadline to
boot. This is an odd way to govern a city. What’s the goal here, again? 

“The goal,” says a city insider privy to the tech tax backers’ strategy
(or lack thereof), “was to get that story into the /Chronicle/ this
morning.” Delving into the minutiae of the proposal—what constitutes a
“tech” company; why a “tech” company that entices an entitled,
gentrifying, Dolores Park–trashing employee to the city should be taxed
more punitively than any other company doing this; why voters would want
to reinstitute a payroll tax after they already voted to eliminate it
just a few years ago—is a loser’s game. Don’t worry about all that: no
one will /ever/ have to work this stuff out. Because this isn’t
government—it’s politics. 

Even earlier this month, /San Francisco/ has learned, the supporters of
the tech tax had no real inclination to propel it onto November’s
ludicrously crowded ballot. What changed? Well, Supervisor Mark Farrell
submitted a highly divisive ballot measure
<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/story/supervisor-puts-tent-encampments-notice-where-will-the-residents-go> giving
the city more leverage to break down tent encampments. This was seen as
a nakedly political move by the consortium of homeless advocates,
affordable housing backers, and workers’ rights activists who had been
toying with the notion of a tech tax. So, the tax—which, we're told, is
the brainchild of Jobs with Justice executive director Gordon Mar, twin
brother of Eric—was revived, introduced, and floated in the press. And
then what? 

“Nothing,” says a longtime city player. “I don’t think it’s going
anywhere. They got agood newspaper headline <https://t.co/xw9FGPVuqd>
out of it and they made Mark Farrell look like a heartless bully who’s
standing up for the tech industry while attacking the homeless.”

In summation, the entire narrative of why this tax was introduced can be
summed up as follows: “F--k me? No, f--k /you/!”

But just because this legislation isn’t going anywhere doesn’t mean the
animus underlying it is going away. “It’s going to start a
conversation,” says a supportive City Hall denizen, “that’ll be hanging
around for the next few years.” 

And what a next few years it figures to be. 

 

/
Have feedback? Email us at //letterssf@sanfranmag.com/
<mailto:letterssf@sanfranmag.com>/
Email Joe Eskenazi at //Jeskenazi@modernluxury.com/
<mailto:jeskenazi@modernluxury.com>/
Follow us on Twitter //@sanfranmag/ <http://twitter.com/sanfranmag>/
Follow Joe Eskenazi at //@EskSF/ <http://twitter.com/esksf>

 

  * About Us <http://www.modernluxury.com/advertise>
  * Advertise <http://www.modernluxury.com/advertise>
  * Contact Us <http://www.modernluxury.com/contact>
  * Careers <http://www.modernluxury.com/careers>
  * Privacy Policy <http://www.modernluxury.com/privacy_policy>
  * Sign Up <http://www.modernluxury.com/signup>
  * Subscribe <https://online.icnfull.com/lxp/?action=SUBSCRIPTION>
  * RSS <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/rss.xml>
  * Our Publications <http://www.modernluxury.com/our-publications>
  * Custom Publishing <http://customcontent.modernluxury.com/>

  |   © Modern Luxury   |   Terms of Service
<http://www.modernluxury.com/terms_of_use>

<#>

<#>

<#>

<#>

<#>

<#><#><#><#><#>
