<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco>
Subscribe to San Francisco Magazine
<https://online.icnfull.com/lxp/?action=SUBSCRIPTION>

  * Eat & Drink

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink>
      o Restaurants

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink/restaurants>
      o Wine & Spirits

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink/wine-and-spirits>
      o Ingredient

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink/ingredient>
      o Clubs & Bars

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink/clubs-and-bars>
  * News & Features

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features>
      o Politics

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/politics>
      o Profiles

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/profiles>
      o Reporter's Notebook

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/reporters-notebook>
      o Real Estate

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/real-estate>
      o Tech World

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/tech-world>
  * Travel

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/travel>
      o Weekend Escapes

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/travel/weekend-escapes>
      o California Destinations

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/travel/california-destinations>
      o Further Afield

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/travel/further-afield>
  * Culture

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/culture>
      o Reviews

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/culture/reviews>
      o Galleries & Performance

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/culture/galleries-and-performance>
      o Music

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/culture/music>
  * Style

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/style>
      o Fashion

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/style/fashion>
      o Shopping

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/style/shopping>
      o Beauty

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/style/beauty>
  * Home

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/home-life>
      o Architecture

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/home-life/architecture>
      o Interiors

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/home-life/interiors>
  * City Life

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/city-life>
  * Scene

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/scene>
  * Videos

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/videos>

  * Cityguide
    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-franciscos-cityguide/digital-edition>
  * Brides <http://modernluxury.com/brides-california>
  * Guide to Private Schools
    <http://modernluxury.com/bay-area-guide-to-private-schools/digital-edition>
  * Events <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/events>
  * Charity Datebook
    <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-san-francisco/digital-edition>
  * Interiors California
    <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-california/digital-edition>

San Francisco Magazine facebook
<http://www.facebook.com/SanFranciscoMagazine>
San Francisco Magazine twitter <http://twitter.com/sanfranmag>
San Francisco Magazine instagram <http://instagram.com/sfmagazine>
San Francisco Magazine apps

  * iPhone

    <http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/san-francisco-magazine/id370141813?mt=8>
  * iPad

    <http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/san-francisco-magazine-hd/id370424626?mt=8>
  * Droid

    <https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.modernluxury.sanf&feature=sear...>


    Our Publications

  * Aspen

    <http://modernluxury.com/aspen>
      o Aspen

        <http://modernluxury.com/aspen>
  * Atlanta

    <http://modernluxury.com/atlanta>
      o The Atlantan

        <http://modernluxury.com/atlanta>
      o Jezebel

        <http://modernluxury.com/jezebel>
      o Modern Luxury Brides Atlanta

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-atlanta>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Atlanta

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-atlanta>
      o Men's Book Atlanta

        <http://modernluxury.com/mens-book-atlanta>
      o Charity & Social Datebook Atlanta

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-atlanta/digital-edition>
  * Chicago

    <http://modernluxury.com/chicago>
      o CS

        <http://modernluxury.com/chicago>
      o Modern Luxury Brides Chicago

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-chicago>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Chicago

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-chicago>
      o Men's Book Chicago

        <http://modernluxury.com/mens-book-chicago>
      o NS

        <http://modernluxury.com/chicagos-north-shore>
      o Modern Luxury Brides North Shore

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-north-shore>
      o Charity and Social Datebook Chicago

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-chicago/digital-edition>
  * Dallas

    <http://modernluxury.com/dallas>
      o Modern Luxury Dallas

        <http://modernluxury.com/dallas>
      o Modern Luxury Brides Dallas

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-dallas>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Texas

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-texas>
      o Charity and Social Datebook Dallas

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-dallas/digital-edition>
  * The Hamptons

    <http://modernluxury.com/the-hamptons>
      o Beach

        <http://modernluxury.com/the-hamptons>
  * Hawai'i

    <http://modernluxury.com/hawaii>
      o Modern Luxury Hawaii

        <http://modernluxury.com/hawaii>
  * Houston

    <http://modernluxury.com/houston>
      o Houston

        <http://modernluxury.com/houston>
      o Modern Luxury Brides Houston

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-houston>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Texas

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-texas>
      o Charity and Social Datebook Houston

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-houston/digital-edition>
  * Los Angeles

    <http://modernluxury.com/angeleno>
      o Angeleno

        <http://modernluxury.com/los-angeles>
      o Modern Luxury Brides California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-california>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors California

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-california>
      o Charity and Social Datebook Los Angeles

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-los-angeles/digital-edition>
  * Miami

    <http://modernluxury.com/miami>
      o Miami

        <http://modernluxury.com/miami>
      o Modern Luxury Brides South Florida

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-south-florida>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors South Florida

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-south-florida>
  * New York

    <http://modernluxury.com/manhattan>
      o Manhattan

        <http://modernluxury.com/manhattan>
  * Orange County

    <http://modernluxury.com/orange-county>
      o Modern Luxury Orange County

        <http://modernluxury.com/orange-county>
      o Modern Luxury Brides California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-california>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors California

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-california>
      o Charity & Social Datebook Orange County

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-orange-county/digital-edition>
  * San Diego

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-diego>
      o Modern Luxury San Diego

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-diego>
      o Modern Luxury Brides California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-california>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors California

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-california>
      o Charity & Social Datebook San Diego

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-san-diego/digital-edition>
  * San Francisco

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco>
      o San Francisco

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco>
      o Modern Luxury Brides California

        <http://modernluxury.com/brides-california>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors California

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-california>
      o CityGuide

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-franciscos-cityguide/digital-edition>
      o Charity & Social Datebook San Francisco

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-san-francisco/digital-edition>
  * Scottsdale

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/scottsdale>
      o Scottsdale

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/scottsdale>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Scottsdale

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-scottsdale>
  * Silicon Valley

    <http://modernluxury.com/silicon-valley>
      o Modern Luxury Silicon Valley

        <http://modernluxury.com/silicon-valley>
  * Washington, D.C.

    <http://modernluxury.com/washington-dc>
      o DC

        <http://modernluxury.com/washington-dc>
      o Charity and Social Datebook DC

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-dc/digital-edition>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings Washington

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-washington>


    Scene In…

<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/scene/pop-wine-party-buena-vista-winery/img227619>

Pop Up Wine Party at Buena Vista Winery
<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/scene/pop-wine-party-buena-vista-winery>

See All Photos >>
<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/scene/pop-wine-party-buena-vista-winery>



    Now Playing

<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/videos/fallfest-2015>
<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/digital-edition>
Home <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco> › City Life
<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/city-life> › Affinities: A Recipe
for Change
<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/story/affinities-recipe-change> ›
 96  11  80 Google +0  0


  Affinities: A Recipe for Change

Lauren Murrow | Photo: Wesley Verhoeve | June 29, 2016

A portrait gallery of homeless and low-income chefs in training.

SLIDESHOW

Lorraine Hanks

(1 of 12)

Nicole McCullum

(2 of 12)

Liberato Tongol

(3 of 12)

Bobby Hunter

(4 of 12)

Alicia Hansen Lee

(5 of 12)

Richard Henegen

(6 of 12)

Brandy Giggey

(7 of 12)

Darcel Jackson

(8 of 12)

Lynn Fox

(9 of 12)

Jennifer Moras

(10 of 12)

Branden Davis

(11 of 12)

Satia Frazier-North

(12 of 12)

/See all the Affinities photo shoots here./
<http://www.modernluxury.com/san-francisco/story/affinities-ongoing-pictorial-study-of-uniquely-bay-area-tribes>

Each person copes with hardship in his or her own way. For Bayview
resident Lorraine Hanks, who has dealt with mental illness since being
laid off in 2009, it’s baking strawberry-rhubarb pies. “That process is
like therapy for me,” she says. 

Hanks, 50, is one of five budding cooks in the most recent class of
Chefs, a culinary program run by Episcopal Community Services that
trains homeless and low-income residents to work in the food service
industry. Over 30 percent of Chefs students have done time in prison;
many have battled substance abuse or trauma. When Hanks applied last
year, she says, “I was a month away from homelessness.” 

The seven-month program culminates in a 240-hour internship at
participating eateries like Nopa and Kokkari; Hanks completed her
internship at Lotta’s Bakery in Nob Hill, where she was struck by the
universal power of food. “We cook when somebody dies, we cook when a
child is born,” she says. “I’ve realized cooking is related to
everything: to family, to religion, to happiness, to sadness.”

 

/To be published in the August 2016 issue of / San Francisco

/Have feedback? Email us at //letterssf@sanfranmag.com/
<mailto:letters@sanfranmag.com>/
Email Lauren Murrow at //Lmurrow@modernluxury.com/
<mailto:lmurrow@modernluxury.com>/
Follow us on Twitter //@sanfranmag/ <http://twitter.com/sanfranmag>/
Follow Lauren Murrow on Twitter //@laurenmurrow/
<http://twitter.com/laurenmurrow>

  * About Us <http://modernluxury.com/advertise>
  * Advertise <http://modernluxury.com/advertise>
  * Contact Us <http://www.modernluxury.com/contact>
  * Careers <http://modernluxury.com/careers>
  * Privacy Policy <http://modernluxury.com/privacy_policy>
  * Sign Up <http://modernluxury.com/signup>
  * Subscribe <https://online.icnfull.com/lxp/?action=SUBSCRIPTION>
  * RSS <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/rss.xml>
  * Our Publications <http://modernluxury.com/our-publications>
  * Custom Publishing <http://customcontent.modernluxury.com/>

  |   © Modern Luxury   |   Terms of Service
<http://modernluxury.com/terms_of_use>

<#>

<#>

<#>

<#>

<#>

<#><#><#><#><#>
