<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco>
Subscribe to San Francisco Magazine
<https://online.icnfull.com/lxp/?action=SUBSCRIPTION>

  * Eat & Drink

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink>
      o Restaurants

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink/restaurants>
      o Wine & Spirits

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink/wine-and-spirits>
      o Ingredient

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink/ingredient>
      o Clubs & Bars

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/eat-and-drink/clubs-and-bars>
  * News & Features

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features>
      o Politics

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/politics>
      o Profiles

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/profiles>
      o Reporter's Notebook

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/reporters-notebook>
      o Real Estate

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/real-estate>
      o Tech World

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features/tech-world>
  * Travel

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/travel>
      o Weekend Escapes

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/travel/weekend-escapes>
      o California Destinations

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/travel/california-destinations>
      o Further Afield

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/travel/further-afield>
  * Culture

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/culture>
      o Reviews

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/culture/reviews>
      o Galleries & Performance

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/culture/galleries-and-performance>
      o Music

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/culture/music>
  * Style

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/style>
      o Fashion

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/style/fashion>
      o Shopping

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/style/shopping>
      o Beauty

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/style/beauty>
  * Home

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/home-life>
      o Architecture

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/home-life/architecture>
      o Interiors

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/home-life/interiors>
  * City Life

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/city-life>
  * Scene

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/scene>
  * Videos

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/videos>

  * Cityguide
    <http://www.modernluxury.com/san-franciscos-cityguide/digital-edition>
  * Brides <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-california>
  * Guide to Private Schools
    <http://modernluxury.com/bay-area-guide-to-private-schools/digital-edition>
  * Events <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/events>
  * Charity Datebook
    <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-san-francisco/digital-edition>
  * Interiors California
    <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-california/digital-edition>

San Francisco Magazine facebook
<http://www.facebook.com/SanFranciscoMagazine>
San Francisco Magazine twitter <http://twitter.com/sanfranmag>
San Francisco Magazine instagram <http://instagram.com/sfmagazine>
San Francisco Magazine apps

  * iPhone

    <http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/san-francisco-magazine/id370141813?mt=8>
  * iPad

    <http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/san-francisco-magazine-hd/id370424626?mt=8>
  * Droid

    <https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.modernluxury.sanf&feature=sear...>


    Our Publications

  * Aspen

    <http://modernluxury.com/aspen>
      o Aspen

        <http://modernluxury.com/aspen>
  * Atlanta

    <http://modernluxury.com/atlanta>
      o The Atlantan

        <http://modernluxury.com/atlanta>
      o Jezebel

        <http://modernluxury.com/jezebel>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings Atlanta

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-atlanta>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Atlanta

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-atlanta>
      o Men's Book Atlanta

        <http://modernluxury.com/mens-book-atlanta>
      o Charity & Social Datebook Atlanta

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-atlanta/digital-edition>
  * Chicago

    <http://modernluxury.com/chicago>
      o CS

        <http://modernluxury.com/chicago>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings Chicago

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-chicago>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Chicago

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-chicago>
      o Men's Book Chicago

        <http://modernluxury.com/mens-book-chicago>
      o NS

        <http://modernluxury.com/chicagos-north-shore>
      o Modern Luxury Brides North Shore

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/brides-north-shore>
      o Charity and Social Datebook Chicago

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-chicago/digital-edition>
  * Dallas

    <http://modernluxury.com/dallas>
      o Modern Luxury Dallas

        <http://modernluxury.com/dallas>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings Dallas

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-dallas>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Texas

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-texas>
      o Charity and Social Datebook Dallas

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-dallas/digital-edition>
  * The Hamptons

    <http://modernluxury.com/the-hamptons>
      o Beach

        <http://modernluxury.com/the-hamptons>
  * Hawai'i

    <http://modernluxury.com/hawaii>
      o Modern Luxury Hawaii

        <http://modernluxury.com/hawaii>
  * Houston

    <http://modernluxury.com/houston>
      o Houston

        <http://modernluxury.com/houston>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings Houston

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-houston>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Texas

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-texas>
      o Charity and Social Datebook Houston

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-houston/digital-edition>
  * Los Angeles

    <http://modernluxury.com/angeleno>
      o Angeleno

        <http://modernluxury.com/los-angeles>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-california>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors California

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-california>
      o Charity and Social Datebook Los Angeles

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-los-angeles/digital-edition>
  * Miami

    <http://modernluxury.com/miami>
      o Miami

        <http://modernluxury.com/miami>
      o Modern Luxury Weedings South Florida

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-south-florida>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors South Florida

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-south-florida>
  * New York

    <http://modernluxury.com/manhattan>
      o Manhattan

        <http://modernluxury.com/manhattan>
  * Orange County

    <http://modernluxury.com/orange-county>
      o Modern Luxury Orange County

        <http://modernluxury.com/orange-county>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-california>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors California

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-california>
      o Charity & Social Datebook Orange County

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-orange-county/digital-edition>
  * San Diego

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-diego>
      o Modern Luxury San Diego

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-diego>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings California

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-california>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors California

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-california>
      o Charity & Social Datebook San Diego

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-san-diego/digital-edition>
  * San Francisco

    <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco>
      o San Francisco

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings California

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-california>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors California

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-california>
      o CityGuide

        <http://modernluxury.com/san-franciscos-cityguide/digital-edition>
      o Charity & Social Datebook San Francisco

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-san-francisco/digital-edition>
  * Scottsdale

    <http://www.modernluxury.com/scottsdale>
      o Scottsdale

        <http://www.modernluxury.com/scottsdale>
      o Modern Luxury Interiors Scottsdale

        <http://modernluxury.com/interiors-scottsdale>
  * Silicon Valley

    <http://modernluxury.com/silicon-valley>
      o Modern Luxury Silicon Valley

        <http://modernluxury.com/silicon-valley>
  * Washington, D.C.

    <http://modernluxury.com/washington-dc>
      o DC

        <http://modernluxury.com/washington-dc>
      o Charity and Social Datebook DC

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-charity-social-datebook-dc/digital-edition>
      o Modern Luxury Weddings Washington

        <http://modernluxury.com/modern-luxury-weddings-washington>


    Scene In…

<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/scene/the-list-party/img239628>
The List Release Party
<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/scene/the-list-release-party>
See All Photos >>
<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/scene/the-list-release-party>


    Now Playing

<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/videos/fallfest-2015>
<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/digital-edition>
Home <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco> › News and Features
<http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/news-and-features> › Cause for
Concrn <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/story/cause-concrn> ›
 New  0  0 Google +0  0


  Cause for Concrn

Andrea Powell | Photo: Ryan Heath | June 29, 2016

A new app is trying to reduce the number of 911 calls made in the
Tenderloin. But should crisis management really be handled by ordinary
citizens?

Jacob Savage (left), the Pied Piper of the Tenderloin.

 

*Jacob Savage can’t* meet me in his office, which is temporarily housed
in the Indochinese Housing Development Corporation, because the space is
being used as a kids' summer camp. Instead, he asks if we can meet
nearby at the San Francisco City Impact Thrift Store, a small space in
the heart of the Tenderloin. When he shows up, he is carrying a trumpet
in one hand. There is also a slide whistle—the kind given out at kid
birthday parties—sticking out of his back pocket. “Hey man, I’ve met you
before,” one of the store’s employees says to him. “On the street. You
were playing that thing,” he says, pointing to the trumpet. 

Savage, 26, is the founder of Concrn <https://www.concrn.org/>, a
nonprofit that aims to deploy “compassionate response” to the ongoing
social ills plaguing the neighborhood. Much of the group’s work is done
through a Tenderloin-specific app, which allows users to report
non-emergency crisis situations via their smartphone. Instead of calling
the police when someone is yelling belligerently on the sidewalk, for
example, users can report the incident on the Concrn app, which then
sends trained responders to the scene. Oftentimes the responders will
play music to defuse the situation, hence the trumpet.  

But Concrn, at least in the eyes of its founder, is more than just an
app. Savage and his team, which includes eight volunteer responders, a
dozen lesser-trained volunteers, and a rotating list of instructors
experienced in fields like social work and self-defense, spend their
days wandering the streets of the Tenderloin and are acutely aware of
its happenings, block by block. They know many of the neighborhood’s
shopkeepers, service providers, and cops by name, and they try, as best
as possible, to build personal relationships with its homeless
population. “I hate when people say Concrn is an app,” Savage tells me.
“Concrn is a service; we have an app. It’s an alternative to 911.” 

In its nearly two years of existence, Concrn has slowly generated buzz
within the nonprofit, governmental, and tech communities. Google has
agreed to match the first $10,000 raised in an upcoming crowdfunding
campaign; the Department of Public Health’s community liaison, Rann
Parker, says she would like to work more closely with the organization
in the future. Savage says Concrn receives calls almost every day, and
the organization is in frequent communication with city agencies—notably
the Homeless Outreach Team (SFHOT)—as it carries out its work on the
streets. 

But Concrn is also voluntarily taking on a task the SFPD has managed for
decades. All the difficulties of crisis management in the Tenderloin—an
unpredictable client base, overlapping city bureaucracies, expensive
insurance requirements—have already borne down on Jacob Savage.
Encouraging people to choose an app over 911 is to renegotiate a
response that was drilled into all of us in kindergarten. Concrn also
represents something this community has seen before: The insertion of
ambitious but inexperienced urbanites who side-step city agencies and
attempt to tackle the Tenderloin's deeply entrenched problems with one
Grand Plan. There was Greg Gopman <http://greggopman.com/>, the tech CEO
who went from ranting about the homeless online to running a homlessness
blog titled "A Better San Francisco." (Gopman ended the project after
six months, writing, "I felt we took [the blog] as far as it can go
until the city is ready to change.") There's Kevin Adler, the founder of
Miracle Messages <http://www.miraclemessages.org/>, which tries to
reconnect the homeless with their families by taking videos and posting
them on social media. Before Miracle Messages, Adler experimented with
giving homeless people GoPros as a way to document life on the streets.
Each of these ideas has been strong in its intent but weak in its
effectiveness at making life better for those it's meant to serve. In
order to be effective in the long run, Savage must not only change the
way people think about crisis response, but also gain the trust of both
the homeless community and those working to serve it. That’s a lot to
ask from a nascent organization with little money, experience, or even
its own office.  

To see Concrn in action, I ask Savage to let me tag along for a day as
he roams the streets of the Tenderloin. We are walking down Golden Gate
Avenue when a woman sitting on the sidewalk asks for help. She says she
just got out of the hospital. Savage pulls a granola bar out of his back
pocket and gives it to her. “Do you need any water or anything?” he
asks. She nods yes. He stoops down and looks her in the eye. “I’m Jacob,
by the way. What’s your name?” She says her name is Natalie. Savage gets
up, walks into a nearby sandwich shop, and buys a bottle of water. He
brings it back to Natalie, who is appreciative, but presses him for
money. “I’m from Concrn,” he tells her, “Do you know about my
organization?” She says no. “We can’t give money out,” he says, handing
her another granola bar. She begins to argue with him, so he says
goodbye and heads down the street. “The way this city works, nothing
works from the top down,” he sighs. “If you want to get shit done you
have to do it from the bottom up.” 

*
When Savage was* in high school in Palo Alto, he was recruited into a
cadet program by the Palo Alto Police Department. From the age of 16 to
the time he was 21, he spent many hours riding along in police cars,
watching law enforcement in action, and being trained for a future as a
police officer. “It was so much fun,” he recalls. “I became this
adrenaline junkie. You’re always in pursuit.” But, he admits, “I was
young and impressionable.” Things began to change when Savage realized
that police response often resulted in arrest, even when the issue
involved mental health challenges. “All these emotions started flowing
out and I realized I couldn’t become a cop,” he says. “I didn’t want to
be a part of that perpetuation of incarceration.” 

After dropping out of a self-designed law enforcement studies program at
UC Santa Cruz, Savage decided to focus his attention on music. While
attending a festival in Eugene, Oregon, he learned about a local program
called CAHOOTS <http://whitebirdclinic.org/cahoots/> (Crisis Assistance
Helping Out on the Streets), which dispatches a trained crisis worker,
along with an EMT, to non-emergency situations. Inspired by seeing an
alternative to the career he had dreamed of for so long, Savage told his
college friend, a bioengineer named Doug Marks, about it. In 2013 the
pair signed up for a Highground Hackers event in San Francisco where
participants were tasked with tackling challenges surrounding mental
health. The two worked with software developer friends to build an app
that would dispatch citizen responders when users filed a report. The
idea of Concrn was born, and Savage spent the next year fine-tuning the
work of the organization while software developers honed the app (Marks
eventually handed all the responsibility over to Savage and is not
currently involved with Concrn). “It was always my goal to have [the
project] in San Francisco and to be on the street responding, because
that’s just how I am,” says Savage. “I’m pretty clear that what we need
to do first is to create a really successful pilot project.” 

That project, which involves running a consistently operational dispatch
network for two months, is the goal behind an upcoming crowdfunding
campaign that Concrn will launch July 25. The campaign is being run on
HandUp, a socially conscious donation platform that connected Savage
with Google, which in turn agreed to match the first $10,000 raised.
Concrn’s total goal is $30,000, to be used toward training costs and
operational supplies. Savage, who has been volunteering his efforts for
the last two years and only recently moved from friends’ couches into an
apartment, will soon get paid $17.50 for every hour he is on the street
responding to incidents, as will the rest of his lead responders.
“Eventually we want to be able to employ the community of the Tenderloin
and run this as a social enterprise,” says Savage. “It’s not going to be
sustainable if we can’t pay people to commit to us.” 

Concrn’s lead responders, all of whom are volunteers, receive 100 hours
of training in various areas including safety, conscious communication,
and “compassion cultivation training.” They may also be deemed
pre-qualified thanks to professional experience, in which case they can
forgo the 100 hours. Non-lead volunteers, who receive substantially less
training, must be paired with a lead teammate in order to respond in
crisis situations. But Savage admits that “not all responders have the
same training” and that “there is no way to really train someone in a
classroom for what we’re doing on the street. They just do it,” he says
when I ask how the volunteers gain experience. “They follow a lead
responder. It’s a little bit like we’re throwing someone in the fire.” 

*
There haven’t been* any calls over the dispatch radio, so we walk into
Boeddeker Park, a small patch of land that many in this community have
tried to save as a safe place, free of used needles and shady drug
deals. It’s summer break and dozens of children are out, some of them
watched over by camp directors, others seemingly left on their own. Like
the Pied Piper reincarnate, Savage breaks out his trumpet and starts
playing. A group of boys tossing a football on the grass suddenly stop
and look at him. For a moment, there is nothing but the sound of the
trumpet as the kids stare at this strange man wearing a bright purple
shirt and holding a weird instrument. Then the tallest of the group
confidently breaks into a grin and throws Savage the ball. 

“I’ve seen kids this age smoking crack, so we try to build relationships
with them,” Savage tells me on our way into the park. Playing football
is a far cry from crisis management, but the kids seem to recognize, or
least accept, that he’s part of the community. As he runs around on the
grass with the kids, two cops stand on the edge of the park, watching
over the scene before them. “You should play with us sometime,” Savage
tells them on the way out. One responds, “There’s no need for me to be
there if you’re there.” 

The day drags on without any calls, so Savage decides to check in on a
homeless man he’s gotten to know in the neighborhood. Hugh Herns is 57
and has been living on the street ever since getting out of prison a few
years ago. He says he used to sleep in shelters but that he contracted
tuberculosis from one and ended up hospitalized for several months. “A
place is the main thing I need,” he says. “There’s only so much a man
can take.” He first met Savage on the street about nine months ago and
says that Concrn has been trying to help get him housed. As we stand
there, a homeless woman approaches Savage and asks what Concrn is all
about. “We try to get people housing,” he responds. “But there is no
housing so we never promise anything.” Later, after he’s played the
trumpet for his small street audience and we’re walking away, I ask
Savage why his response to the woman was so different than what Concrn
promotes on its website. “We have a different answer for everyone,” he
admits. “We don’t need to be case managers.” 

Indeed, most of Concrn’s day-to-day work involves solving the immediate
needs of the people it meets: giving someone a granola bar and water, or
handing out free jackets when it’s cold. Savage carries Narcan, the
heroin overdose reversal drug, and says they often provide “wellness
checks” when they see someone lying on the street. But through the app,
Concrn’s volunteer workers are also responding to incident reports that
would normally be handled by the police: fights between people on the
street, tensions between warring drug dealers, mentally ill people
yelling at passing cars (“that’s our bread and butter” says Savage). He
admits they almost never call the police for help, but says they do
frequently get backup from SFHOT and EMS-6, the city response team that
dispatches SFHOT members with first responders when the call warrants it. 

When asked whether or not all of this is a good idea, Tenderloin Station
Captain Teresa Ewins says she knew of Concrn’s work with the homeless
population but had no idea they were encouraging people to report crises
to them directly. “If they’re convincing people to do that, that’s not
really the responsible thing to do,” Ewins stresses. “I don’t think it’s
good for the community to not call the police during crisis situations.
That creates a huge safety issue.” 

Others in the Tenderloin say that’s exactly the point—they have no
interest in involving the cops in what should be a community issue.
Lillie Troy co-owns Smash Gallery on Golden Gate Avenue and met Savage a
couple months ago. “They would probably be my first resort if I couldn’t
get through to someone or needed to get in the doorway or something,”
she says of Concrn. “It’s a level of backup that doesn’t put you at odds
with everybody else around.” David Fenton, Troy’s fellow co-owner, is
slightly more dubious. “It seems as if their intent is wonderful, like
they want to offer something great to the community. But I haven’t seem
them in action, I’ve only heard them talking about what they do.” 

As the day draws to a close without any crises being reported, Savage
heads back towards his makeshift office. Suddenly, he notices a
voicemail has just been left on his phone. It’s from the Department of
Public Health’s Mobile Crisis Team, which has received a report of
someone on the sidewalk in the Marina yelling and hitting himself.
Savage calls back and talks to an MCT employee, who tells him they are
unavailable to respond and asks if he could help. “This is out of our
regular jurisdiction, but I’m going to jump in my car and drive over
there,” he tells the caller. We hop in his Bernie Sanders–stickered car
and head north, and Savage calls SFPD commander Ann Mannix to tell her
what’s going on. She urges him to call 911, but he politely declines and
they wrap up the call. He tells me that he “skipped the chain of
command” by calling the commander instead of the neighborhood police
captain. 

“Isn’t that kind of renegade?” I ask him. 

He barely hesitates. “This whole thing is.” 

 

/Have feedback? Email us at letterssf@sanfranmag.com
<mailto:letterssf@sanfranmag.com>
////Email Andrea Powell at apowell@modernluxury.com
<mailto:apowell@modernluxury.com>
//Follow us on Twitter @sanfranmag <http://twitter.com/sanfranmag>
////Follow Andrea Powell on Twitter //@AndreaPowellSF/
<http://twitter.com/AndreaPowellSF>

 

 

  * About Us <http://modernluxury.com/advertise>
  * Advertise <http://modernluxury.com/advertise>
  * Contact Us <http://www.modernluxury.com/contact>
  * Careers <http://modernluxury.com/careers>
  * Privacy Policy <http://modernluxury.com/privacy_policy>
  * Sign Up <http://modernluxury.com/signup>
  * Subscribe <https://online.icnfull.com/lxp/?action=SUBSCRIPTION>
  * RSS <http://modernluxury.com/san-francisco/rss.xml>
  * Our Publications <http://modernluxury.com/our-publications>
  * Custom Publishing <http://customcontent.modernluxury.com/>

  |   © Modern Luxury   |   Terms of Service
<http://modernluxury.com/terms_of_use>

<#>

<#>

<#>

<#>

<#>

<#><#><#><#><#>
