KQED Menu

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Menu

    <#>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs & Blogs

        <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Special Coverage

        <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs <#> Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California


  KQED News <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

Search

<#search-container>


  KQED News Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Search for:

The California Report
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>


  Selling Landlords on Formerly Homeless Tenants

Brad Schwartz sits at his desk at home. After decades of homelessness it
took half a year to find a landlord willing to rent to him.

Brad Schwartz sits at his desk at home. After decades of homelessness it
took half a year to find a landlord willing to rent to him. (/J.D.
Hillard/KQED/)

By *J.D. Hillard*
June 30, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/selling-landlords-on-formerly-homeless-tenants/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/selling-landlords-on-formerly-homeless-tenants/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/selling-landlords-on-formerly-homeless-tenants/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/selling-landlords-on-formerly-homeless-tenants/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/selling-landlords-on-formerly-homeless-tenants/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/selling-landlords-on-formerly-homeless-tenants/?share=email&nb=1>
*

One of the key tools in the effort to end homelessness has a weakness.
The “housing first” approach adopted by communities across the country
involves helping people find housing and, in many cases, subsidizing
their rent. Facing a shortage of rental housing, Santa Cruz County has
set out to recruit landlords to rent to people who have been homeless.

In Brad Schwartz’s case, finding a landlord who would rent to him took
about six months.

Sitting on his couch sipping a beer, he explains that in 2007 or 2008,
after two decades of homelessness, he applied for a Section 8 voucher —
a federally funded rental subsidy for people with very low incomes or
disabilities.

“I got tired of being on the streets,” he says. “I decided I’d done
everything I’d wanted to do while I was out there and that I wanted to
tie up all my loose ends.”

He continued sleeping in the woods for about five more years until
county staff called and told him his name had come up on the waiting list.

“ ‘Now go get your voucher and look for a place. You have two months to
find one.’ It was like a game show thing and I couldn’t find one.”

The 60-day time limit is supposed to keep vouchers from going unused.
But for Schwartz it wasn’t enough time to find a landlord who would take
his voucher. He’s not alone, says Santa Cruz County Housing Manager
Julie Conway.

*Model Tenants*

“We’ve got a number of property managers whose approach with the
properties they manage is to just not even consider tenant-based
subsidies,” she says.

One landlord recently told her he was afraid: “‘I’m just going to have
this person in here who’s got major substance abuse issues and so do all
of their friends. He’s just going to come in and trash the unit and cost
me lots of money and why would I do that.’”

In Conway’s account, the landlord ended up renting to someone he had
known previously who had become homeless as the result of a health
issue. The person became a model tenant.

“That person was so relieved to have a housing unit that the last thing
they were going to do was blow it.” she says.

This is a theme in the campaign Conway is launching to encourage
landlords to take tenants who have been homeless. The campaign is part
of the county’s “All-In Strategic Plan to End Homelessness
<http://www.unitedwaysc.org/news/new-countywide-strategic-plan-end-homelessness-approved>.”
Counter to stereotypes, people who have been homeless are often quiet,
reliable tenants.

sfproject3 <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>

*A Business Based on Renting to the Formerly Homeless*

A video she plans to show to the local Rotary Club and other civic
groups opens with the slogan “Landlords: You are the key to ending
homelessness in Santa Cruz County.” The video includes testimonials from
landlords. One of them, Jack Cross, owns about 40 small units. He says
renting to subsidized tenants is good business.

“I don’t like turnover, because turnover or vacancies is a headache of
cleaning and advertising again and screening tenants,” Cross says.
“Whereas these tenants stay for a long periods of time. The cash flow’s
good and you don’t have any down time.”

As an incentive, the county will cover rent, if a tenant fails to pay.
Conway says that’s unlikely because rent subsidies already automatically
deposit into property owners’ accounts. The county will also pay a
limited amount on top of the security deposit if a property gets
damaged. These financial bonuses follow a model the county tried in a
small program years ago. In that experience, Conway says only two small
damage claims were filed.

*Finally Home*

In his search, Brad Schwartz had to request two extensions on the
deadline for his voucher. He eventually got some help finding a place
from John Dietz, a volunteer with 180/2020. That’s Santa Cruz County’s
program that aims to make a 180-degree turnaround for the homelessness
problem by the year 2020.

“John called me one day — Saturday or something like 8 in the morning,”
Schwartz says. “And he calls me and goes, ‘I just talked to a lady and
she wants us there 2 o’clock for an interview. Got a place near the
beach that you’d like where you can smoke tobacco.’ ”

His house has just two rooms. It’s in a part of Santa Cruz dominated by
apartment buildings. The ivy and blackberry in the yard require regular
trimming. Schwartz thinks his enthusiasm for yard work might have
persuaded his landlord to pick him.

“I help out with the ladies in front, I help with the front yard and do
a lot of raking. And do little things that help me feel like I’m being
responsible,” he says. “It’s the place I live, it’s not just this box
I’m renting and they can do what they want with it.”

Conway says getting more landlords to take formerly homeless tenants is
just part of the answer to the homelessness problem. Ultimately, the
county needs more affordable housing.

Explore: Housing <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>, News
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/news/>, homelessness
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/homelessness/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/selling-landlords-on-formerly-homeless-tenants/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/selling-landlords-on-formerly-homeless-tenants/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/selling-landlords-on-formerly-homeless-tenants/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/selling-landlords-on-formerly-homeless-tenants/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/selling-landlords-on-formerly-homeless-tenants/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/selling-landlords-on-formerly-homeless-tenants/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

0 Comments
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/selling-landlords-on-formerly-homeless-tenants/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related

For One Man, Looking for Housing Means Putting Fatherhood on Hold

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2015/11/17/for-one-man-looking-for-housing-means-putting-fatherhood-on-hold>

In Secretive Marijuana Industry, Whispers of Abuse and Trafficking

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/10/14/in-secretive-marijuana-industry-whispers-of-abuse-and-trafficking/>

How One Homeless Man in Oakland Found Himself Back Home

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/01/03/how-one-homeless-man-in-oakland-found-himself-back-home>

Residents of Run-Down Public Housing Complex in Richmond Finally Get Help

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2015/02/10/residents-of-run-down-public-housing-complex-in-richmond-finally-get-help/>

Market Street Tenants Sue to Block Eviction

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2014/01/10/tenants-of-1049-market-street-fight-eviction>

Homelessness: You've Got Questions, We've Got Answers

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/28/homelessness-youve-got-questions-weve-got-answers>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>


  Post navigation

Prev S.F. Fire Department Brass Say They Have No Evidence of Mission
District 'Gentri-Fires'

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/s-f-fire-department-brass-insist-they-have-no-evidence-of-mission-district-gentri-fires/>
Next What Happens When One Working Family Becomes Homeless

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/what-happens-when-one-working-family-becomes-homeless/>



  About The California Report

The California Report provides daily coverage of news and culture
throughout the state.

  * Contributors <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/contributors/>
  * Contact <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/contact-the-california-report/>
  * Tune In <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tune-in/>


  About KQED

  * About <http://www.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://www.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://www.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://www.kqed.org/about/help/index.jsp>


  Support for The California Report is Provided By

  * Eric and Wendy Schmidt <http://www.theschmidt.org/>
  * The California Endowment <http://www.calendow.org/>
  * California HealthCare Foundation <http://www.chcf.org/>
  * Rowbotham <http://www.rowbotham.com/>
  * The Westly Foundation <http://www.westly.org/> 



  * The James Irvine Foundation <http://www.irvine.org/>
  * Barracuda Networks <https://www.barracuda.com/>
  * Blach Construction <http://www.blach.com/>
  * Digital Foundry <http://www.digitalfoundry.com/>
  * Wharton San Francisco <http://sf.wharton.upenn.edu/> 

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

[blank image]
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.


  Get the facts!

Close

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil
:)
