KQED Menu

  *


      KQED Arts

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>

  * KQED Arts Menu

    <#>

  * KQED Arts Home

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Books

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/literature/>
      o Comedy

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/comedy/>
      o Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/culture/>
      o Dance

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/dance/>
      o Digital Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/digitalarts/>
      o Fashion/Design

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/design/>
      o Movies

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/music/>
      o News

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/news/>
      o Performance Art

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/performance/>
      o Pop Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/popculture/>
      o Theater

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/theater/>
      o TV

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/tv/>
      o Visual Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/visualarts/>
  * Programs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs

        <#>
      o Art School

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/artschool/>
      o The Bay Bridged

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/affiliates/the-bay-bridged/>
      o Culture Cue

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/culture-cue/>
      o The Do List

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
      o Earful

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/earful/>
      o Film School Shorts

        <http://blogs.kqed.org/filmschoolshorts/>
      o ImageMakers

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/imagemakers/>
      o Into the Mix

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/into-the-mix/>
      o KQED Pop

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/pop/>
      o Spark

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/spark/>
      o Truly CA

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/trulyca/>
  * Specials

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Specials

        <#>
      o Arts Education

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-in-education/>
      o Arts + Social Issues

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-plus-social-issues/>
      o pARTicipate

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/participate/>
      o Priced Out

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/pricedout/>
      o Our Creative Nature

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/our-creative-nature/>
      o Fall Arts Guide

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/fall-arts-guide-2016/>
  * The Do List

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
  * Videos

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/videos/>

  *


      KQED Arts

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>

  * KQED Arts Home

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Books

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/literature/>
      o Comedy

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/comedy/>
      o Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/culture/>
      o Dance

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/dance/>
      o Digital Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/digitalarts/>
      o Fashion/Design

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/design/>
      o Movies

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/music/>
      o News

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/news/>
      o Performance Art

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/performance/>
      o Pop Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/popculture/>
      o Theater

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/theater/>
      o TV

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/tv/>
      o Visual Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/visualarts/>
  * Programs

    <#>
      o Art School

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/artschool/>
      o The Bay Bridged

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/affiliates/the-bay-bridged/>
      o Culture Cue

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/culture-cue/>
      o The Do List

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
      o Earful

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/earful/>
      o Film School Shorts

        <http://blogs.kqed.org/filmschoolshorts/>
      o ImageMakers

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/imagemakers/>
      o Into the Mix

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/into-the-mix/>
      o KQED Pop

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/pop/>
      o Spark

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/spark/>
      o Truly CA

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/trulyca/>
  * Specials

    <#>
      o Arts Education

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-in-education/>
      o Arts + Social Issues

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-plus-social-issues/>
      o pARTicipate

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/participate/>
      o Priced Out

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/pricedout/>
      o Our Creative Nature

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/our-creative-nature/>
      o Fall Arts Guide

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/fall-arts-guide-2016/>
  * The Do List

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
  * Videos

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/videos/>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California


  KQED Arts <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>

Search

<#search-container>


  KQED Arts Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Search for:

Art Wire <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/art-wire/>


  SF Arts and Homeless Organizations Join Forces to Secure More City Funding

San Francisco arts and homeless services organizations are banding
together to propose a ballot measure that would earmark city funding
from the Hotel Tax for both arts and homeless services

San Francisco arts and homeless services organizations are banding
together to propose a ballot measure that would earmark city funding
from the Hotel Tax for both arts and homeless services (/Photo: Darshan
Simha/)

By Chloe Veltman <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/author/cveltman/>, KQED
May 27, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/05/27/sf-arts-and-homeless-organizations-join-forces-to-secure-more-city-funding/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/05/27/sf-arts-and-homeless-organizations-join-forces-to-secure-more-city-funding/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/05/27/sf-arts-and-homeless-organizations-join-forces-to-secure-more-city-funding/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/05/27/sf-arts-and-homeless-organizations-join-forces-to-secure-more-city-funding/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/05/27/sf-arts-and-homeless-organizations-join-forces-to-secure-more-city-funding/?share=email&nb=1>
*

Dozens of arts and homelessness advocacy organizations in San Francisco
are joining forces to file a ballot measure to restore funding from the
city’s Hotel Room Tax
<http://sfcontroller.org/sites/default/files/FileCenter/Documents/242-06_Hotel_Room_Tax_October_2013.pdf>
(a tax of 14 percent levied on hotel stays, more simply known as the
Hotel Tax.) The “San Francisco Arts and Families Funding Ordinance” aims
to benefit both cultural activities and families living on the streets —
without raising taxes for voters.

Supporters of the measure, which was filed at City Hall on Friday, are
calling the move an “unprecedented unified coalition” between the city’s
cultural and homeless services communities.

More than 30 organizations, large and small, ranging from the San
Francisco Opera <http://sfopera.com/> and the Coalition on Homelessness
<http://www.cohsf.org/> to Root Division <https://www.rootdivision.org/>
and the Hamilton Family Center <https://hamiltonfamilycenter.org/> have
signed on to push the measure through. Although the city’s arts and
homeless communities intersect frequently in the present tough economic
climate — with increasing numbers of artists and arts organizations
being displaced from their homes and workplaces, artists creating art
about living on the streets, and homeless services organizations
offering arts activities to people in shelters — the collaboration is
certainly unusual.

Sponsored By

“As far as we’re aware, never before has this type of coalition between
the arts and homeless communities come together,” says Shwetika
Baijal, a strategist with 50+1 Strategies <http://www.50p1.com/>, a San
Francisco-based political consulting firm that’s working with the
coalition on building support for the measure. “This pushes us to think
of a broader vision for San Francisco.”

*A long legacy*

San Francisco’s Hotel Tax was originally created in 1961 to support the
city’s arts industries, and the construction and operation of convention
facilities. Starting in the 1970s, funds from the Hotel Tax were
allocated to fund low-income housing. In early 2000s, the city amended
the allocations for the arts as part of the annual budget process,
reducing funding gradually, and ultimately repealing specific
allocations altogether. Money that went towards low-income housing from
the fund was eliminated. (The city offers funding for people in need of
food and shelter through other channels, such as the Mayor’s Fund for
the Homeless <http://www.sfmayor.org/index.aspx?page=1030>.)

Meanwhile, San Francisco hotel revenues have increased by 135 percent
over the past decade. These days, most of the Hotel Tax money ends up in
the city’s General Fund. The fund is sizable and has grown enormously
over the past decade: at the end of 2014-2015 fiscal year, the total
Hotel Tax revenue was close to $400 million, up from just over $150
million ten years previously.

“The Hotel Tax is a massive source of revenue in San Francisco, yet the
arts and homeless services in San Francisco have been severely
underfunded,” says Nicole Derse, principal at 50+1. “It makes sense that
we should direct funding back towards the Hotel Tax’s original intent.”

*How the money will be used*

If the measure passes in November, it will use funds from the Hotel Tax
kitty in an effort to end homelessness for families living in San
Francisco. A 2015 report by the Coalition on Homelessness estimates that
there are nearly 2,000 homeless families in the city, including more
than 3,200 minors. Funds will specifically be used for rapid re-housing,
prevention and diversion, capital and operating costs for the
development, rehabilitation and acquisition of new housing for homeless
families, and the administration of these programs.

“I couldn’t imagine a San Francisco that doesn’t support its homeless
families and its arts and culture,” says Martha Ryan, executive director
of the Homeless Prenatal Program <http://www.homelessprenatal.org/>
(HPP), a local support center for impoverished and homeless families,
and a member of the coalition. “Seeing the women who come to the
Homeless Prenatal Program for vital services, I think there is nothing
more important than making sure family homelessness services are funded.
The beautiful arts in our communities and our city’s vibrant cultural
institutions makes us who we are, and we have to financially support
them to keep San Francisco’s spirit intact.”

The measure also calls for a portion of the Hotel Tax fund to be
earmarked for the cultural industries, including general operational
support for San Francisco arts and cultural organizations, arts service
organizations, capital investments and regranting programs, arts tourism
initiatives and neighborhood arts collaborative programs with the San
Francisco Arts Commission.

“The Hotel Tax was originally created to support arts industries, but
has been experiencing gradual reductions since the early 2000s,” says
Jon Moscone, chief engagement officer at Yerba Buena Center for the Arts
<http://www.ybca.org/> (YBCA), a visual and performing cultural venue,
producer and presenter in downtown San Francisco. YBCA is a member of
the coalition. “Speaking as a native San Franciscan and an artist, this
measure not only addresses the critical issues facing arts funding, but
also steps up and addresses funding needs for family homelessness.”

The measure is intended to have a wide-reaching impact on the city’s
arts and culture offerings. However, it is not comprehensive in terms of
its scope: “Our measure funds primarily the Grants for the Arts (GFTA),
Arts Commission, War Memorial, convention facilities, Cultural Equity
Endowment Fund and creates a new Neighborhood Arts Fund,” Baijal says.

*Stronger together*

Derse says a number of San Francisco’s arts organizations started
working together to strengthen the local cultural ecosystem over a year
ago, by advocating for more cultural equity in the last budget cycle.
Derse says that homelessness service providers were having similar
discussions at that time, specifically around family homelessness. “Both
groups were looking to the Hotel Tax,” Derse says. “We realized there
was lots of common ground, so in the last three months we’ve been
combining efforts.”

Instead of filing separate ballot measures — “we thought it would be
confusing to voters to see multiple hotel tax measures on the ballot,”
Derse says — the two communities decided to move forwards with a single
proposal. “We realized we’re stronger together,” Derse says.

In order to get the measure on the November ballot, the coalition
members have about a month starting in early June to collect
9,485 signatures on their petition, once the Department of Elections
issues the coalition with a title and summary. (If the measure were
brand new charter amendment rather than an amendment to an existing
ordinance, the requirement would be 43,280 signatures.) If the requisite
number of signatures is collected and the measure gets through, it will
need approval from at least two-thirds of San Francisco’s voters to pass.

Derse says the arts and homeless organizations are now working to raise
public awareness about the measure in order to get the necessary
signatures on the petition, and then inspiring additional arts and
homeless advocacy groups and leaders to join the cause. “We are
organizing groups and supporters to start collecting petitions,”
Baijal says. “It’s a great opportunity for supporters to get involved
from the get-go.”

A spokesperson from City Hall couldn’t be reached for comment on Friday.
We will update this story as it unfolds.

Explore: Culture <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/culture/>, News
<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/news/>, Election 2016
<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/tag/election-2016/>, news
<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/tag/news-2/>, taxes
<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/tag/taxes/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/05/27/sf-arts-and-homeless-organizations-join-forces-to-secure-more-city-funding/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/05/27/sf-arts-and-homeless-organizations-join-forces-to-secure-more-city-funding/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/05/27/sf-arts-and-homeless-organizations-join-forces-to-secure-more-city-funding/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/05/27/sf-arts-and-homeless-organizations-join-forces-to-secure-more-city-funding/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/05/27/sf-arts-and-homeless-organizations-join-forces-to-secure-more-city-funding/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

1 Comment
<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/05/27/sf-arts-and-homeless-organizations-join-forces-to-secure-more-city-funding/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related Posts from KQED Arts

Homeless & Arts Org-Backed Measure Earns Place on Nov. Ballot

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/07/21/homeless-arts-org-backed-measure-earns-place-on-nov-ballot/>

Arts and Homeless Groups Unite Behind Ballot Measure for More Funds

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/07/11/arts-and-homeless-groups-unite-behind-balllot-measure-for-more-funds/>

California Arts Council in the Money With New State Budget

<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/28/california-arts-council-in-the-money-with-new-state-budget/>

Five Songs for the Homeless: The Bay Area's Empathy on Record

<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/five-songs-for-the-homeless-the-bay-areas-empathy-on-record/>

Prisoner's Scarlett Johansson Portrait Provides Path Towards Redemption

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/21/prisoners-scarlett-johannson-portrait-provides-path-towards-redemption/>

San Francisco’s Intersection for the Arts Suspends Programs, Lays Off
Curators

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2014/05/22/san-franciscos-intersection-for-the-arts-suspends-programs-lays-off-curators/>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


    Author


      Chloe Veltman

Chloe Veltman is senior arts editor at KQED.

 

View all posts by this author <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/author/cveltman/>


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>


  Post navigation

Prev Why So Few Ballet Dancers Become Choreographers

<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/05/27/why-so-few-ballet-dancers-become-choreographers/>
Next Ex-'Glee' Star Mark Salling Indicted on Child-Porn Charges

<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/05/27/ex-glee-star-mark-salling-indicted-on-child-porn-charges/>



  About KQED Arts

KQED Arts provides daily arts news, reviews and profiles for the San
Francisco Bay Area.

  * Contributors <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/contributors/>
  * Contact Us <mailto:arts@kqed.org>


  About KQED

  * About <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/>

Funding for KQED Arts is provided by The William and Flora Hewlett
Foundation <http://www.hewlett.org/>.

The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation <http://www.hewlett.org/>

Support is also provided by the Kenneth Rainin Foundation and the
members of KQED.

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

:)
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.


  When you need an art fix!

Close

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil
