KQED Menu

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Menu

    <#>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs & Blogs

        <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Special Coverage

        <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs <#> Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California


  KQED News <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

Search

<#search-container>


  KQED News Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Search for:


  SFHomeless_long_Horizontal-02

Thousands of people are homeless in San Francisco, and even more
throughout the Bay Area. Despite years of concern and millions of
dollars of investment, the problem persists.

Who are the people who live on the streets and on the edge of
homelessness? Why have we failed to create lasting change? And are there
solutions that offer hope for the future? *As part of a collaboration
with dozens of Bay Area news organizations, KQED is exploring these
questions, and more.*

Tasha Henneman (left) and Nichelle Kitt hold for a photo before tucking
into their sleeping bags during Covenant House Oakland's Sleep Out.

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/11/22/gala-5k-this-homeless-shelter-is-fundraising-with-a-sleep-out/>


News Fix <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>


  Gala? 5K? This Homeless Shelter Is Fundraising With a ‘Sleep Out’
  <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/11/22/gala-5k-this-homeless-shelter-is-fundraising-with-a-sleep-out/>

By Laura Klivans <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/lklivans/> November
22, 2016	

The California State University system has been studying student
homelessness and hunger since 2015.

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/08/31/california-state-university-plans-to-tackle-college-homelessness/>


The California Report
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>


  California State University Plans to Tackle College Homelessness
  <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/08/31/california-state-university-plans-to-tackle-college-homelessness/>

By Devin Katayama <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/dkatayama/> August
31, 2016	

Oakland recyclers wait their turn to cash in on bottles and cans.

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/08/17/advocates-raise-money-to-help-west-oakland-recyclers/>


News Fix <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>


  Advocates Raise Money to Help West Oakland Recyclers
  <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/08/17/advocates-raise-money-to-help-west-oakland-recyclers/>

By Devin Katayama <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/dkatayama/> August
17, 2016	

Portable toilets mounted to a trailer bed are moved throughout the Lower
Polk neighborhood each night.

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/07/20/mobile-bathrooms-offer-solution-for-lower-polks-homeless-community/>


News Fix <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>


  Mobile Restrooms Offer Solution for Lower Polk’s Homeless Community
  <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/07/20/mobile-bathrooms-offer-solution-for-lower-polks-homeless-community/>

By Libby Leyden <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/lleyden/> July 20, 2016	

A homeless encampment located on Florida St in the Mission District of
San Francisco, Calif. on Thursday, June 23, 2016.

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/07/12/homelessness-in-san-franciscos-mission-a-neighborhood-view/>


News Fix <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>


  Homelessness in San Francisco’s Mission: A Neighborhood View
  <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/07/12/homelessness-in-san-franciscos-mission-a-neighborhood-view/>

By Sukey Lewis <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/slewis/> July 12, 2016	

Mariposa

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/07/05/outside-yosemite-rural-town-grapples-with-homelessness/>


The California Report
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>


  Outside Yosemite, Rural Town Grapples with Homelessness
  <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/07/05/outside-yosemite-rural-town-grapples-with-homelessness/>

By Alice Daniel <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/aliceldaniel/> July 5,
2016	

Harold Pyne has lived at the Navigation Center on Mission Street for a
year. The Navigation Center is one way that San Francisco is trying to
help homeless people get into more stable housing. The city plans to
open six more in the next two years.

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/24/start-the-conversation-what-are-your-ideas-for-addressing-homelessness/>


SF Homeless Project <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>


  Start the Conversation: What Are Your Ideas For Addressing
  Homelessness?
  <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/24/start-the-conversation-what-are-your-ideas-for-addressing-homelessness/>

By KQED News Staff <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/kqed/> July 1, 2016	

A homeless encampment on Florida St.

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/07/01/asking-homeless-people-for-their-advice/>


News Fix <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>


  Asking Homeless People for Their Advice
  <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/07/01/asking-homeless-people-for-their-advice/>

By KQED News Staff and Wires
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/kqednewsstaffandwires/> July 1, 2016	

Mayor Dianne Feinstein and members of her administration walk through a
shantytown slated for dismantling near Seventh and Berry streets.

<http://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/2016/06/30/interactive-timeline-a-history-of-homelessness-in-san-francisco/>


The Lowdown <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>


  TIMELINE: A Political History of Homelessness in San Francisco
  <http://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/2016/06/30/interactive-timeline-a-history-of-homelessness-in-san-francisco/>

By Matthew Green <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/matthewgreen/> June
30, 2016	

The Acur family gets a slice of normalcy in temporary housing in San
Mateo after sleeping in their van and on a garage floor.

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/what-happens-when-one-working-family-becomes-homeless/>


News Fix <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>


  What Happens When One Working Family Becomes Homeless
  <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/what-happens-when-one-working-family-becomes-homeless/>

By Beth Willon <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/bwillon/> June 30, 2016	

Brad Schwartz sits at his desk at home. After decades of homelessness it
took half a year to find a landlord willing to rent to him.

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/selling-landlords-on-formerly-homeless-tenants/>


The California Report
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>


  Selling Landlords on Formerly Homeless Tenants
  <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/selling-landlords-on-formerly-homeless-tenants/>

By *J.D. Hillard* June 30, 2016	

Vrndavana-Hines-1920x1920

<http://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2016/06/28/teen-homelessness/>	

Perspectives


  Growing Up Homeless
  <http://ww2.kqed.org/perspectives/2016/06/28/teen-homelessness/>

By *Vrndavana Hines* June 30, 2016	

Thumbnail for 11004864

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/why-art-making-is-essential-to-the-tenderloins-homeless-population/>


KQED Arts


  Why Art-Making is Essential to the Tenderloin’s Homeless Population
  <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/why-art-making-is-essential-to-the-tenderloins-homeless-population/>

By Cy Musiker <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/cmusiker/> June 30, 2016	

Two drawings hang at the San Francisco Night Ministry's headquarters,
where head minister Lyle Beckman led volunteers in prayer before the
night's crisis line opened and before he hit the streets.

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/on-the-streets-of-the-tenderloin-a-light-in-an-unlit-world/>


News Fix <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>


  On the Streets of the Tenderloin, ‘a Light in an Unlit World’
  <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/on-the-streets-of-the-tenderloin-a-light-in-an-unlit-world/>

By Natalie Yemenidjian <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/nyemenidjian/>
June 29, 2016


  Posts navigation

1 2 <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/page/2/> … 6
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/page/6/> Next Page

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/page/2/>	


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>


    KQED Public Media for Northern CA


  Follow KQED News

  * Follow Us on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KQEDnews>
  * Follow Us on Twitter <https://twitter.com/kqednews>
  * Connect on Instagram <http://instagram.com/kqednews>
  * Connect on Google+ <https://plus.google.com/117185877001714843452/posts>
  * Connect on YouTube
    <http://www.youtube.com/subscription_center?add_user=KQEDnews>


  Most Popular in KQED News

  * A 40-Year Teaching Career Ending After Trump/Hitler Comparison in
    Mountain View
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/11/22/a-40-year-teaching-career-ending-after-trumphitler-comparison-in-mountain-view/>

    A 40-Year Teaching Career Ending After Trump/Hitler Comparison in
    Mountain View
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/11/22/a-40-year-teaching-career-ending-after-trumphitler-comparison-in-mountain-view/>

  * Satellite Study Documents Sinking of S.F. Apartment Tower
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/11/29/satellite-study-documents-sinking-of-s-f-apartment-tower/>

    Satellite Study Documents Sinking of S.F. Apartment Tower
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/11/29/satellite-study-documents-sinking-of-s-f-apartment-tower/>

  * NPR Reporter Tracked Down a Fake-News Creator; Here's What She
    Learned
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/11/23/npr-tracked-down-a-fake-news-creator-in-the-suburbs-heres-what-they-learned/>

    NPR Reporter Tracked Down a Fake-News Creator; Here's What She
    Learned
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/11/23/npr-tracked-down-a-fake-news-creator-in-the-suburbs-heres-what-they-learned/>

  * To Save S.F. Bay and Its Dying Delta, State Aims to Replumb
    California
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/11/30/to-save-s-f-bay-and-its-dying-delta-state-aims-to-re-plumb-california/>

    To Save S.F. Bay and Its Dying Delta, State Aims to Replumb
    California
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/11/30/to-save-s-f-bay-and-its-dying-delta-state-aims-to-re-plumb-california/>

  * Supreme Court Weighs Limits on Detention of Noncitizens
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/11/30/supreme-court-weighs-limits-on-detention-of-noncitizens/>

    Supreme Court Weighs Limits on Detention of Noncitizens
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/11/30/supreme-court-weighs-limits-on-detention-of-noncitizens/>

  * Where Did the Wild Parrots of San Francisco Come From?
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/11/23/where-did-the-wild-parrots-of-san-francisco-come-from/>

    Where Did the Wild Parrots of San Francisco Come From?
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/11/23/where-did-the-wild-parrots-of-san-francisco-come-from/>



  About KQED News

KQED News provides daily and in-depth coverage of regional and state
issues, and is a service of KQED Public Radio, TV, and Interactive.

  * Contributors <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/contributors/>
  * Contact the Newsroom <mailto:assignmentdesk@kqed.org>


  About KQED

  * About <http://www.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://www.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://www.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://www.kqed.org/about/help/index.jsp>


  Follow KQED News

  * Follow Us on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KQEDnews>
  * Follow Us on Twitter <https://twitter.com/kqednews>
  * Connect on Instagram <http://instagram.com/kqednews>
  * Connect on Google+ <https://plus.google.com/117185877001714843452/posts>
  * Connect on YouTube <https://www.youtube.com/user/KQEDnews>

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

[blank image]
:)


  Get the facts!

Close

