  * About Castro Valley Matters

    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/about-us/>
      o Board of Directors

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/board-of-directors/>
      o About the Blog

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/about-the-blog/>
      o Join Castro Valley Matters

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/civicrm/?page=CiviCRM&q=civicrm/contribute/transact&reset=1&id=1>
      o Donate to Castro Valley Matters

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/civicrm/?page=CiviCRM&q=civicrm/contribute/transact&reset=1&id=2>
  * Blog Roll

    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/blog-roll/>
      o Local Control

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/castro-valley-local-control/>
      o Governance

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/castro-valley-governance/>
      o Economic Development

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/castro-valley-economic-development/>
      o Public Safety

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/castro-valley-public-safety/>
      o Education

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/castro-valley-education/>
      o Valley Voices

        <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/valley-voices/>
  * Upcoming events

    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/events/>
  * Civic Toolkit

    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/toolkit/>
  * Elected MAC

    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/elected-mac/>
  * Join CVM Today!

    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/civicrm/?page=CiviCRM&q=civicrm/contribute/transact&reset=1&id=1>

Castro Valley Matters

<http://castrovalleymatters.org/>

Engage, Inform, Promote, and Advocate for a Better Castro Valley


  SF Homeless Project: Homeless Students in the Castro Valley School
  District

June 29, 2016 by Rebecca Stanek-Rykoff
<http://castrovalleymatters.org/author/rstanek/> Leave a Comment
<http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/06/29/sf-homeless-project-homeless-students-cvusd/#respond>


/Castro Valley Matters is participating in the SF Homeless Project
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/>, an effort by over 70 Bay
Area organizations to tell stories of homelessness in San Francisco and
the Bay Area. /

Homelessness in the Bay Area and around the United States takes on many
forms — while we are unfortunately all too used to seeing homeless
encampments under highway overpasses and alongside creeks, there are
many more homeless people we don’t notice in our communities.

It’s not always obvious who is living in a car, or couch-surfing, or
living out of a motel. In looking to learn what everyday life is like,
and what support systems exist in our community, we reached out to the
Castro Valley Unified School District (CVUSD) <http://www.cv.k12.ca.us/>
to learn more about the district’s support of homeless students.

One teacher told CVM:

    We don’t always know who our homeless students are – we don’t know
    who receives free/reduced meals either. It’s private information.
    However, I think many teachers with older students know more about
    their students and quickly learn the hardships their students
    face. This epidemic is all over CV, not just in what people perceive
    to the lower income areas.

*Homeless Students in Castro Valley*
Within CVUSD there are approximately 30 families who are homeless,
impacting nearly every school, according to the District. This number
has stayed relatively constant over the past few years. The vast
majority of these families are not visible parts of the the homeless
population — they are families who are staying with friends or family,
living out of a car or trailer, or living out of a motel. The vast
majority of these families are headed by a single parent (usually, but
not always, the mother).

At the high school level situations get more complex — occasionally kids
are kicked out of their parents’ home, and must rely on the kindness of
friends’ parents for a place to stay. Other students stay in the
district while their parents need to leave the area or the U.S.
(Unfortunately, the number of students in this category may increase,
due to the legal blocking of deferred action of deportations of
undocumented individuals whose minor children are U.S. citizens.)
Parents have the option of naming another family as a “caregiver”
family, but this is not necessarily pursued by all parents.

*How Do We Find Homeless Students and Families?*
Every August, when registering students for school, the online portal
asks a set of five state-mandated questions which screen for
homelessness. CVUSD follows up with the parents who answer yes to any of
the five questions. Many parents do not reveal their homeless status,
however, and the district learns via other means:

  * Teachers notice the kids in their class, and if a kid is excessively
    hungry, tired, or sad, or if there is a noticeable change in outward
    presentation, that can be a sign of homelessness (or other
    instability at home).
  * Kids sometimes confide in a teacher or other staff person.
  * Occasionally a school receives an anonymous tip, which is handled
    confidentially and delicately.

Parents are typically doing everything they can to keep things as normal
as possible for their families, and to retain their dignity — the school
district works to support families while respecting the complex emotions
they are working through.

*School Support for Homeless Students*
Homeless students have the legal right to remain in the district, and
the school can often be a source of stability for students who are
homeless. Even if a temporary housing solution takes a student outside
of the CVUSD boundaries, they can stay at CVUSD until permanent housing
is secured. And if permanent housing is secured outside of the district,
students are still able to finish out the school year in CVUSD.

The district provides reduced or free lunch and breakfast (including
second-chance breakfast) to many students, and provides school supplies
and shoes (via a private donor) to students. The elementary schools each
have a half-time counselor, paid through a federal grant program. These
counselors work with students, and the district also helps connect
families to other local resources (temporary housing, medical insurance,
food banks).

*How to Help Homeless Students in CVUSD*
The best way to help homeless students (and other students who may have
an unstable living situation) is to get to know your kids’ friends, and
their parents. If catastrophe hits, local support from friends can make
a difference. (If you don’t feel able to approach a family in need, you
can always approach the school with an anonymous tip, which will be
handled confidentially and discreetly. These systems are in place
because of the difficulty in having a frank conversation about
homelessness.) Some of the parent-teacher organizations at the schools
have a hardship fund, which can pay for field trip costs and other fees
that students may not be able to pay.

Finally, the total homeless population in Castro Valley is significantly
larger than the visible portion of the population — temporary housing
comes in many forms. We cannot neglect the kids whose lives are
disrupted by homelessness. We desperately need a long-term solution to
homelessness, but in the meantime, we need to be sure that our schools
can reach and support homeless students.

/Thank you to Rinda Bartley, Director of Student Services at CVUSD, for
taking the time to talk to me about the support for the homeless student
population./

Filed Under: Education
<http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/castro-valley-education/>,
Featured Story
<http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/featured-story/>, SF Homeless
Project <http://castrovalleymatters.org/category/sf-homeless-project/>


        About Rebecca Stanek-Rykoff

Rebecca has volunteered on political campaigns, served as an Election
Inspector in Michigan, and is currently a member of the Castro Valley
Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Committee (BPAC). She lives in Castro
Valley with her husband and two young children.


      Leave a Reply Cancel reply
      <http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/06/29/sf-homeless-project-homeless-students-cvusd/#respond>

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment

Name *

Email *

Website

  *  <https://www.facebook.com/CastroValleyMatters>
  *  <http://castrovalleymatters.org/feed/>
  *  <https://twitter.com/ceeveematters/>


        Search this Site


        Recent Comments

  * Ellen Griffin on Daughtrey’s on Monday’s MAC agenda with giant
    indoor playground plan
    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/11/23/daughtreys-on-mondays-mac-agenda-with-indoor-playground-plan/#comment-3119>
  * Ellen Griffin on Daughtrey’s on Monday’s MAC agenda with giant
    indoor playground plan
    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/11/23/daughtreys-on-mondays-mac-agenda-with-indoor-playground-plan/#comment-3118>
  * Peter Rosen on Daughtrey’s on Monday’s MAC agenda with giant indoor
    playground plan
    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/11/23/daughtreys-on-mondays-mac-agenda-with-indoor-playground-plan/#comment-3115>
  * David Greensfelder on Daughtrey’s on Monday’s MAC agenda with giant
    indoor playground plan
    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/11/23/daughtreys-on-mondays-mac-agenda-with-indoor-playground-plan/#comment-3113>
  * David Greensfelder on Daughtrey’s on Monday’s MAC agenda with giant
    indoor playground plan
    <http://castrovalleymatters.org/2016/11/23/daughtreys-on-mondays-mac-agenda-with-indoor-playground-plan/#comment-3112>


        Find Us On Facebook

Copyright © 2016 · News Pro Theme
<http://my.studiopress.com/themes/news/> on Genesis Framework
<http://www.studiopress.com/> · WordPress <http://wordpress.org/> · Log
in <http://castrovalleymatters.org/wp-login.php>

