Home <http://sfpublicpress.org/>

SIGN UP FOR OUR
E-NEWSLETTER

<http://sfpublicpress.org/newsletter> a
<http://twitter.com/sfpublicpress> b
<http://www.facebook.com/SFPublicPress> ,
<http://sfpublicpress.org/news/feed> z <http://sfpublicpress.tumblr.com/>


      BECOME A MEMBER

DONATE TO THE PUBLIC PRESS

<http://sfpublicpress.org/membership>

  * Special Reports

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/special-reports>
      o Election 2016

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/election2016>
      o Campaign Finance

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/costofvotes>
      o The Cost of Living Here

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/costofliving>
      o Election 2015

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/election2015>
      o Sea Level Rise

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/searise>
      o School Diversity

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/schooldiversity>
      o Homelessness

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/homelessness>
      o Housing Solutions

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/housingsolutions>
      o Public Schools

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/publicschools>
      o Workforce Development

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/workforce>
      o Climate Change

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/climate>
      o Minimum Wage

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/minimumwage>
      o Earthquakes

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/earthquakes>
      o Domestic Violence

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/domesticviolence>
      o Bay Area Smart Growth

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/smartgrowth>
      o Human Trafficking

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/trafficking>
      o Healthy SF: Who Pays?

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/healthy-sf>
      o Better Budget

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/better-budget>
      o Media Meltdown

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/media-meltdown>
      o Muni

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/special-reports/muni>
      o City Budget Watchdog

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/special-reports/city-budget-watchdog>
      o Treasure Island

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/special-reports/treasure-island>
      o Bay Bridge

        <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/special-reports/bay-bridge>
  * BUY THE PAPER

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/where-to-buy-the-newspaper>
  * BACK ISSUES

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/back-issues>
  * ARCHIVES

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/archives>
  * ABOUT

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/about>
  * BLOG

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/blog>
  * CONTACT

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/contact>
  * DONATE

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/donate>


  SF Public Press Talks Cost of Living on Local Radio Show

 29 6Google +0 0 0
By 
Noah Arroyo <http://sfpublicpress.org/members/noah-arroyo>
San Francisco Public Press
 — Jun 2 2016 - 1:44pm

The findings of a San Francisco Public Press’ special report, “The Cost
of Living Here <http://sfpublicpress.org/costofliving>,” were the topic
of an hourlong discussion
<https://www.mixcloud.com/GeoKoster/voices-of-the-community-the-affordability-gap-and-economic-disparity-in-the-bay-area/>
recently on KCSF-FM
<http://www.ccsf.edu/en/educational-programs/school-and-departments/school-of-liberal-arts/broadcast-electronic-media-arts/KCSF1.html>,
the radio station of City College.

Opening a two-part series on homelessness in San Francisco, “Voices of
the Community” host George Koster’s guests explained how an increasingly
expensive city has affected residents, how government assistance
programs have failed to respond, and what one organization is doing to
fill some of those gaps.

The panel featured Angela Woodall <http://www.angelawoodall.com/>, the
project’s lead author; Stephanie Zamudio, liaison for the Family
Independence Initiative <http://www.fii.org/>, and Caroline Danielson,
senior fellow at the Public Policy Institute of California
<http://www.ppic.org/main/home.asp>.

Woodall said the report’s focus had been on the plights of longtime San
Francisco residents, rather than newcomers. She and the team’s other
reporters found that, since the turn of the century, prices had risen
sharply for many goods and services — not just for housing, which is
commonly the only commodity mentioned by local news outlets.

“We wanted to sort of take a step beyond that, to what was less
obvious,” Woodall said.

Her lead story, “High Housing Prices Undercut Aid Programs
<http://sfpublicpress.org/news/costofliving/2016-01/high-housing-prices-undercut-aid-programs>,”
had revealed that the combined prices of all goods and services rose by
43 percent in the Bay Area between 2000 and 2015, according to data from
the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

As increasing portions of residents’ incomes were set aside for these
inflating costs, Woodall said she wanted to know “what are they giving
up? What are they compromising on, and how is that affecting their
day-to-day life?” Her team found that in some cases people resorted to
eating less protein or buying beans instead meat.

Many residents could be struggling unbeknown to the federal government,
which doesn’t account for varying local costs like housing or
transportation in its poverty calculations, Danielson said.

By the federal measures, California had the nation’s 15th highest
poverty rate in 2013, according to a study by the Public Policy
Institute of California. After factoring in local costs, the institute
found the state actually took first place. Danielson’s team applied the
same recalculation to San Francisco and found that about 23 percent of
the city’s population lived in poverty, a slightly bigger slice than in
California as a whole.

Koster asked if it was possible to re-draw the poverty line to make it
more accurate for San Francisco and the Bay Area.

“Certainly,” Danielson said. “To have it be used is another question.”

The government’s longstanding poverty metrics let it decide how to divvy
up financial and other assistance. If those metrics changed, assistance
could shift to other recipients.


    Possible solutions

Koster asked his guests if they knew of any potential remedies to
protect San Franciscans from being priced out.

Zamudio cited her organization’s approach, which has crafted programs
based on what local families said they needed. One effort, “Family
Time,” reimbursed parents for work hours they sacrificed to be with
their children.

“What have you seen in the way of impact?” Koster asked.

“Oh, are you kidding me?” Zamudio said, “Many families are, like, ‘My
kids’ grades and attendance is going up. I’m able to spend more time and
be more in tune with what’s happening.’ ”

Danielson said it might be “sensible” to reduce the barriers to
obtaining the federal government’s Earned Income Tax Credit, which
reimburses households earning below certain thresholds. About a quarter
of eligible Californians don’t obtain this federal assistance because
they haven’t filed taxes, she said.

Woodall said that her reporting had revealed few city programs designed
to help people weather the high cost of living.

City Hall offers free Muni passes to children and teens, and the local
minimum wage will also increase to $15 by 2018.

But in general, Woodall added, the city’s elected leaders “just didn’t
address the reality of the situation as far as I could tell.”

Middle-class households in particular were neglected, she said. Many
struggle to afford living here but earn too much to qualify for
government assistance. Woodall suggested that residents pressure their
representatives to adjust those eligibility thresholds.

Politicians “know that the income ceilings are out of whack,” she said.
“They just aren’t changing it.”

Part two of the series
<https://www.mixcloud.com/kcsfradio/voices-of-the-community-homeless-in-san-francisco-part-two/>
featured community members and organizations that are working to provide
support to the city’s 1,500 to 2,000 homeless families and find
solutions to their plight. The panelists were Emily Cohen, deputy
director at Project Homeless Connect; Sam Dodge, director of the Office
of Mayor Ed Lee’s Department of Housing Opportunity, Partnerships and
Engagement (HOPE), and Doniece Sandoval, founder of Lava Mae.


*Filed in:*

  * Government <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/civics/government>
  * Housing <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/streetscape/housing>
  * Transportation
    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/streetscape/transportation>
  * Politics <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/civics/politics>
  * San Francisco <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/san-francisco>
  * California <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/california>
  * The Cost of Living Here
    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/special-reports/the-cost-of-living-here>

  *
  * Printer-friendly versionPrinter-friendly version
    <http://sfpublicpress.org/print/news/2016-06/sf-public-press-talks-cost-of-living-on-local-radio-show>

<http://sfpublicpress.org/files/news/shot_from_koster_modified.jpg>

From left to right: George Koster, Caroline Danielson, Angela Woodall
and Stephanie Zamudio. Photo courtesy of George Koster.


    Read more


    About the Author

Noah Arroyo's picture <http://sfpublicpress.org/members/noah-arroyo>
Noah Arroyo <http://sfpublicpress.org/members/noah-arroyo>

Noah Arroyo is assistant editor at Public Press. He has written about
housing, government, business and crime for MissionLocal.org, a U.C.
Berkeley-sponsored hyperlocal news publication. He is a 2010 graduate of
San Francisco State University. Twitter: @noah_arroyo
<http://twitter.com/noah_arroyo>


    Latest news

  *
    Major S.F. Bayfront Developments Advance Despite Sea Rise Warnings

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/searise/2015-07/major-sf-bayfront-developments-advance-despite-sea-rise-warnings>

  *
    Mission Bay Pioneers: Working and Living in a New Waterfront
    Neighborhood

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/searise/2015-07/mission-bay-pioneers>
  *
    Four Ways to Guard Against Sea Level Rise

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/searise/2015-07/four-ways-to-guard-against-sea-level-rise>

  *
    Bay Area Governments Study Sea Level Rise, but Few Set Limits on
    Development

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/searise/2015-07/bay-area-governments-study-sea-level-rise-but-few-set-limits-on-development>

  *
    With Dozens of Local and Regional Governments, Baywide Planning Is Hard

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/searise/2015-07/with-dozens-of-local-and-regional-governments-baywide-planning-is-hard>

  *
    Experts Weigh In on Sea Level Rise

    <http://sfpublicpress.org/news/searise/2015-07/experts-weigh-in-on-sea-level-rise>


Search this site:

HOME <http://sfpublicpress.org/> | ABOUT
<http://sfpublicpress.org/about> | BLOG <http://sfpublicpress.org/blog>
| INTERNSHIPS <http://sfpublicpress.org/internships> | CONTACT US
<http://sfpublicpress.org/contact>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

44 Page St.
<https://maps.google.com/maps?oe=utf-8&q=44+page+street+san+francisco&ie=UTF-8&hq=&hnear=0x8085809f04850561:0xe6748c1bddec79a0,44+Page+St,+San+Francisco,+CA+94102&gl=us&ei=WH3UUJqsNsXF0AGL9ICgDw&ved=0CDcQ8gEwAQ> Suite
504, San Francisco, CA 94102  |  (415) 495-7377

The San Francisco Public Press is a 501(c)3 nonprofit
organization. Donations <http://sfpublicpress.org/donate> are tax
deductible to the extent allowed by law. We have received funding from
national and local foundations and more than 500 individuals.

     <http://fij.org/>     
<http://inn.org/> <http://www.knightfoundation.org/>     <http://sff.org/>

