  * Home <http://kron4.com/>
  * News <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o Bay Area News <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o California News <http://kron4.com/category/news/california-news/>
      o DECISION 2016
        <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/election-2016/>
      o National <http://kron4.com/category/news/national/>
      o International <http://kron4.com/category/news/international/>
      o Politics <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/>
      o Strange <http://kron4.com/category/news/strange/>
      o Entertainment News <http://kron4.com/bitesizetv/>
      o MyKRON4Story <http://kron4.com/category/news/mykron4story/>
      o Our Team <http://kron4.com/category/news/kron4-news-team/>
  * Bay Area Weather <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>
      o Airport Delays <http://kron4.com/weather/airport-delays/>
      o Current Conditions <http://kron4.com/weather/current-conditions/>
      o Earthquakes <http://kron4.com/weather/earthquakes/>
      o Fire Danger <http://kron4.com/weather/fire-danger/>
      o Forecasts <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>
      o Live Cameras <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>
      o Rainfall Totals <http://kron4.com/weather/rainfall-totals/>
      o Satellite <http://kron4.com/weather/satellite/>
      o SatRad <http://kron4.com/weather/satrad/>
      o Weather Alerts <http://kron4.com/weather-alerts/>
  * Traffic <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
      o Live Cameras <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Traffic Conditions
        <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
  * Sports <http://kron4.com/category/sports/>
      o Gary’s World <http://kron4.com/category/sports/gary-radnich/>
      o San Francisco 49ers <http://kron4.com/category/sports/49ers/>
      o Oakland A’s <http://kron4.com/category/sports/as/>
      o Cal <http://kron4.com/category/sports/cal/>
      o Giants <http://kron4.com/category/sports/giants/>
      o Raiders <http://kron4.com/category/sports/raiders/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes
        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o Sharks <http://kron4.com/category/sports/sharks/>
      o Stanford <http://kron4.com/category/sports/stanford-sports/>
      o Warriors <http://kron4.com/category/sports/warriors/>
  * Features <http://kron4.com/category/features/>
      o Fleet Week <http://kron4.com/category/fleet-week/>
      o Bay Area Living <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/>
      o KRON 4 BackStory <http://kron4.com/category/kron-4-backstory/>
      o Dine & Dish <http://kron4.com/category/features/dine-dish/>
      o Family Fun <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/family-fun/>
      o KRON 4’s Teacher of the Week
        <http://kron4.com/kron-4s-teacher-of-the-week/>
      o Tech Trends <http://kron4.com/category/features/tech/>
      o People Behaving Badly
        <http://kron4.com/category/features/people-behaving-badly/>
      o Ready 4 School <http://kron4.com/category/back-to-school/>
  * KRON <http://kron4.com/category/kron/>
      o Jobs at KRON <http://kron4.com/category/kron/jobs-at-kron/>
      o Community <http://kron4.com/category/kron/community/>
      o Contests <http://kron4.com/category/kron/contests/>
      o Advertising Terms and Conditions
        <https://mgtvkron.files.wordpress.com/2014/12/young-broadcasting-advertising-ts-and-cs.pdf>
      o Advertise with KRON 4
        <http://kron4.com/category/advertise-with-kron/>
      o History of Bay Area
        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/25/tech-trends-history-of-bay-area-revived-through-remastering-old-news-film-footage/>
  * KRON 4 Live <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Live News Casts <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Second Screen Live Stream
        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/16/live-stream-kron4-news-second-screen/>
  * More <http://kron4.com/category/more/>
      o Report It! <http://kron4.com/report-it/>
      o Contact Us <http://kron4.com/contact-us/>
      o Television Schedule <http://kron4.com/television-schedule/>
      o Marketplace <http://kron4.com/category/marketplace/>
      o Closed Captioning Contact Info
        <http://kron4.com/closed-captioning-contact-information/>


  KRON4.com <http://kron4.com/>

Few Clouds


      58° F

Few Clouds

  * Hi: 65° F
  * Lo: 55° F

<http://kron4.com/category/weather>

  * San Francisco Bay Area Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>
  * Forecasts <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>
  * Bay Area Traffic Conditions
    <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>


Menu

Skip to content

<#content>  
Home

<http://kron4.com/>

  * News

    <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o Bay Area News

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o California News

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/california-news/>
      o DECISION 2016

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/election-2016/>
      o National

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/national/>
      o International

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/international/>
      o Politics

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/>
      o Strange

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/strange/>
      o Entertainment News

        <http://kron4.com/bitesizetv/>
      o MyKRON4Story

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/mykron4story/>
      o Our Team

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/kron4-news-team/>
  * Bay Area Weather

    <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>


          Bay Area Weather

      o Airport Delays <http://kron4.com/weather/airport-delays/>
      o Current Conditions <http://kron4.com/weather/current-conditions/>
      o Earthquakes <http://kron4.com/weather/earthquakes/>
      o Fire Danger <http://kron4.com/weather/fire-danger/>
      o Forecasts <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>
      o Live Cameras <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>
      o Rainfall Totals <http://kron4.com/weather/rainfall-totals/>
      o Satellite <http://kron4.com/weather/satellite/>
      o SatRad <http://kron4.com/weather/satrad/>
      o Weather Alerts <http://kron4.com/weather-alerts/>


          Current Conditions


          58° F

    Few Clouds

      o Feels Like: 58° F
      o Wind: W 10
      o Humidity: 87%
      o Dewpoint: 54° F
      o Sunrise: 6:49 AM
      o Sunset: 4:58 PM

    <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>


          San Francisco Weather


    Forecast <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>

    Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>


    Currently <http://kron4.com/weather/current-conditions/>

    Live Cams <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>

    Sponsored by:

  * Traffic

    <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
      o Live Cameras

        <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Traffic Conditions

        <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
  * Sports

    <http://kron4.com/category/sports/>
      o Gary’s World

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/gary-radnich/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/49ers/>
      o Oakland A’s

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/as/>
      o Cal

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/cal/>
      o Giants

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/giants/>
      o Raiders

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/raiders/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o Sharks

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/sharks/>
      o Stanford

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/stanford-sports/>
      o Warriors

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/warriors/>
  * Features

    <http://kron4.com/category/features/>
      o Fleet Week

        <http://kron4.com/category/fleet-week/>
      o Bay Area Living

        <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/>
      o KRON 4 BackStory

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron-4-backstory/>
      o Dine & Dish

        <http://kron4.com/category/features/dine-dish/>
      o Family Fun

        <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/family-fun/>
      o KRON 4’s Teacher of the Week

        <http://kron4.com/kron-4s-teacher-of-the-week/>
      o Tech Trends

        <http://kron4.com/category/features/tech/>
      o People Behaving Badly

        <http://kron4.com/category/features/people-behaving-badly/>
      o Ready 4 School

        <http://kron4.com/category/back-to-school/>
  * KRON

    <http://kron4.com/category/kron/>
      o Jobs at KRON

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron/jobs-at-kron/>
      o Community

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron/community/>
      o Contests

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron/contests/>
      o Advertising Terms and Conditions

        <https://mgtvkron.files.wordpress.com/2014/12/young-broadcasting-advertising-ts-and-cs.pdf>
      o Advertise with KRON 4

        <http://kron4.com/category/advertise-with-kron/>
      o History of Bay Area

        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/25/tech-trends-history-of-bay-area-revived-through-remastering-old-news-film-footage/>
  * KRON 4 Live

    <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Live News Casts

        <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Second Screen Live Stream

        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/16/live-stream-kron4-news-second-screen/>
  * More

    <http://kron4.com/category/more/>
      o Report It!

        <http://kron4.com/report-it/>
      o Contact Us

        <http://kron4.com/contact-us/>
      o Television Schedule

        <http://kron4.com/television-schedule/>
      o Marketplace

        <http://kron4.com/category/marketplace/>
      o Closed Captioning Contact Info

        <http://kron4.com/closed-captioning-contact-information/>

Search for:

Search the site <#>
Few Clouds


      58° F

Few Clouds

  * Hi: 65° F
  * Lo: 55° F

<http://kron4.com/category/weather>


  SF proposed ballot measure to tax large tech companies to fund homeless

By Brittany Brown, KRON <http://kron4.com/author/kron4brittanybrown/>
Published: June 28, 2016, 6:36 pm Updated: June 29, 2016, 11:51 am

  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/sf-proposed-ballot-measure-to-tax-large-tech-companies-to-fund-homeless/?share=twitter>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/sf-proposed-ballot-measure-to-tax-large-tech-companies-to-fund-homeless/?share=google-plus-1>
  * Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/sf-proposed-ballot-measure-to-tax-large-tech-companies-to-fund-homeless/?share=facebook>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/sf-proposed-ballot-measure-to-tax-large-tech-companies-to-fund-homeless/?share=pinterest>

File - In this Feb. 26, 2016, file photo, Angela Flax packs up her tent
at an encampment along Division Street in San Francisco. Media outlets
in San Francisco plan to saturate internet, broadcast and print
publications this week with news stories about an issue that has stumped
politicians and residents for decades: The city's homeless. Editors will
concentrate media coverage on Wednesday, June 29, 2016, although news
groups also plan stories throughout the week in an effort to inform
residents and spur action. (AP Photo/Eric Risberg, File)
File - In this Feb. 26, 2016, file photo, Angela Flax packs up her tent
at an encampment along Division Street in San Francisco. Media outlets
in San Francisco plan to saturate internet, broadcast and print
publications this week with news stories about an issue that has stumped
politicians and residents for decades: The city's homeless. Editors will
concentrate media coverage on Wednesday, June 29, 2016, although news
groups also plan stories throughout the week in an effort to inform
residents and spur action. (AP Photo/Eric Risberg, File)


      Related Coverage

  *


      Gallery: Homeless encampments in San Francisco
      <http://kron4.com/2016/06/27/gallery-homeless-encampments-in-san-francisco/>

  *


      KRON4 teams up with media outlets for San Francisco Homeless
      Project
      <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/kron4-teams-up-with-media-outlets-for-san-francisco-homeless-project/>

  *


      SF Homelessness <http://kron4.com/gallery/sf-homelessness/>

SAN FRANCISCO (KRON) — San Francisco Supervisor, Eric Mar, introduced a
ballot measure on Tuesday that would impose a new tax on the biggest
tech firms to pay for affordable housing and homeless services.

Mar said it is time for tech companies to “pay their fair share”.

The measure, which would tax tech companies with gross receipts and
payroll of more than $1 million at 1.5 percent of their annual payroll,
is expected to generate around $120 million a year, Mar stated.

The companies would be identified as technology firms according to the
tax codes they submit to the city.

“After five years of rapid tech boom in San Francisco we are putting
forward what we call a housing and homeless services impact tech tax to
require big tech companies to pay their fair share for their impacts on
housing and homeless services in this city”, Mar said at a press
conference on Tuesday.

Mar announced the measure, which is co-sponsored by Supervisors, Aaron
Peskin and David Campos, with the backing of community groups including
San Francisco Rising, Jobs with Justice and the Coalition on Homelessness.

The measure targets the perception that an influx of well-paid tech
workers as fueled rising housing costs and increased evictions in the city.

“All of our folks are facing displacement, and this is due in large part
to the tech boom,” said Kung Feng, lead organizer for Jobs for Justice.

Jennifer Friedenbach, executive director of the Coalition on
Homelessness, said that evictions and high housing costs are a leading
cause of homelessness in the city.

“Tech workers driving up the rent, that’s not the fault of tech workers,
it is the fault of city governments for not capturing those funds coming
in,” Friendenbach said. “In order to truly address homelessness in San
Francisco, we need a susptainable revenue source, we need to get serious
about it and in ordder to do that we need funding.”

The measure also contains a provision cutting the business registration
fee for small businesses in half, a move that is expected to benefit
around 75,000 companies with less than $1 million in revenue.

The measure will require six votes from members of the Board of
Supervisors to get on to the November ballot and two-thirds majority
support by voters to win approval.

/Bay City News contributed to this report. /

Top News
Sponsored By:


      VIDEO: Splenda sues Dunkin’ Donuts

CARMEL, Ind. (WISH) — A Carmel-based company is suing Dunkin’ Donuts. It…

 
Powered By
<http://i.jsrdn.com/i/1.gif?r=83u1&k=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&fwd=http%3A%2F%2Fdistroscale.com>



Share this:

  * Click to email (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/sf-proposed-ballot-measure-to-tax-large-tech-companies-to-fund-homeless/?share=email&nb=1>
  * More <#>
*

  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/sf-proposed-ballot-measure-to-tax-large-tech-companies-to-fund-homeless/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/sf-proposed-ballot-measure-to-tax-large-tech-companies-to-fund-homeless/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  *
  * Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/sf-proposed-ballot-measure-to-tax-large-tech-companies-to-fund-homeless/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/sf-proposed-ballot-measure-to-tax-large-tech-companies-to-fund-homeless/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  *
*


        Related Posts

election-results
<http://kron4.com/2016/11/09/san-francisco-voters-reject-sales-tax-to-finance-homeless-services-transportation-improvements/>



  San Francisco voters reject sales tax, approves spending measures
  <http://kron4.com/2016/11/09/san-francisco-voters-reject-sales-tax-to-finance-homeless-services-transportation-improvements/>

File - In this Feb. 26, 2016, file photo, a city worker tells a homeless
man that the area next to him on is about to be power washed and points
to an area he might want to move in San Francisco. Media outlets in San
Francisco plan to saturate internet, broadcast and print publications
this week with news stories about an issue that has stumped politicians
and residents for decades: The city's homeless. Editors will concentrate
media coverage on Wednesday, June 29, 2016, although news groups also
plan stories throughout the week in an effort to inform residents and
spur action. (AP Photo/Eric Risberg, File)
<http://kron4.com/2016/10/13/sf-homeless-unite-with-lgbt-community-to-protest-tent-ban/>



  SF Homeless unite with LGBT community to protest tent ban
  <http://kron4.com/2016/10/13/sf-homeless-unite-with-lgbt-community-to-protest-tent-ban/>

decision 2016
<http://kron4.com/2016/10/24/rent-housing-beverage-taxes-big-items-on-ballots-around-alameda-county/>



  Rent, housing, beverage taxes big items on ballots around Alameda
  County
  <http://kron4.com/2016/10/24/rent-housing-beverage-taxes-big-items-on-ballots-around-alameda-county/>

decision 2016 generic election
<http://kron4.com/2016/11/08/the-latest-california-gun-control-law-leading/>



  The Latest: Bay Area soda taxes leading
  <http://kron4.com/2016/11/08/the-latest-california-gun-control-law-leading/>

Advertisement

« Previous Story
<http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/video-california-attorney-general-kamala-harris-speaks-about-antioch-special-needs-school-tobinworld-abuse-allegations/>
— Next Story »
<http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/voters-to-decide-whether-to-legalize-recreational-marijuana/>

  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
by Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Sponsored Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
You May Like
Nutrisystem
<http://i.geistm.com/l/5821fa4889480827c155cf0e?utm_campaign=TB_NS_LP_Direct&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>Save
40% and Lose Up To 10 lbs In 1st MonthNutrisystem
<http://i.geistm.com/l/5821fa4889480827c155cf0e?utm_campaign=TB_NS_LP_Direct&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>
Undo
Truthfinder
<http://liquidpch.go2cloud.org/aff_c?offer_id=935&aff_id=1099&aff_sub=%7BClickId%7D&aff_sub2=%7BPlacementId%7D&source=%7BPublisherId%7D&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>Search
Any Name And See Why This Site Is So AddictingTruthfinder
<http://liquidpch.go2cloud.org/aff_c?offer_id=935&aff_id=1099&aff_sub=%7BClickId%7D&aff_sub2=%7BPlacementId%7D&source=%7BPublisherId%7D&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>
Undo
Fisher Investments
<http://www.fisherinvestments.com/offers/definitive-guide-to-retirement-income-1c?country=US&wherefrom=&PC=TABOO9LE99&CC=IF07&alleycode=XX&sc_camp=0F4BA364F17D48F881E2491F6A65E108&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral&utm_term=mediageneral-newskron4>Do
You Have Enough to Retire Comfortably?Fisher Investments
<http://www.fisherinvestments.com/offers/definitive-guide-to-retirement-income-1c?country=US&wherefrom=&PC=TABOO9LE99&CC=IF07&alleycode=XX&sc_camp=0F4BA364F17D48F881E2491F6A65E108&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral&utm_term=mediageneral-newskron4>
Undo
Darden
<https://www.darden.com/blog/tragedy-spurs-longhorn-steakhouse-team-to-open-hearts-and-wallets?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>Tragedy
Brings LongHorn Steakhouse Team Closer TogetherDarden
<https://www.darden.com/blog/tragedy-spurs-longhorn-steakhouse-team-to-open-hearts-and-wallets?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>
Undo
The Easy Loan Site by Bills.com
<https://www.onesmartpenny.com/landers/pages/mortgage-refinance-shark-4.html?utm_term=barbclose.jpg_236694_071116&utm_source=taboola&utm_adgroup=OSP_BC_IMG_RONxMSN_Desktop&utm_medium=mediageneral-newskron4>“Shark
Tank” Star Reveals #1 Mortgage Payoff TipThe Easy Loan Site by Bills.com
<https://www.onesmartpenny.com/landers/pages/mortgage-refinance-shark-4.html?utm_term=barbclose.jpg_236694_071116&utm_source=taboola&utm_adgroup=OSP_BC_IMG_RONxMSN_Desktop&utm_medium=mediageneral-newskron4>
Undo
Newsmax.com
<http://www.newsmax.com/JohnGizzi/trump-carson-giuliani-cabinet/2016/11/09/id/758021/?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>Trump's
Surprise Cabinet Picks - Top 15 RevealedNewsmax.com
<http://www.newsmax.com/JohnGizzi/trump-carson-giuliani-cabinet/2016/11/09/id/758021/?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>
Undo
Show Comments

Advertisement


  Trending on KRON4.com


  More Bay Area News

  *
    6c066004beb74858bd33a71cf70f8f2c
    <http://kron4.com/2016/11/14/video-former-california-elector-addresses-change-org-petition-which-calls-for-electoral-college-to-vote-for-clinton-instead-of-trump/>



      Former elector on petition to reverse election
      <http://kron4.com/2016/11/14/video-former-california-elector-addresses-change-org-petition-which-calls-for-electoral-college-to-vote-for-clinton-instead-of-trump/>

  *
    8c96e72019404acaacf30cc612882589
    <http://kron4.com/2016/11/14/tech-report-comparing-and-contrasting-the-iphone-to-googles-pixel/>



      Tech Report: iPhone versus Google's Pixel
      <http://kron4.com/2016/11/14/tech-report-comparing-and-contrasting-the-iphone-to-googles-pixel/>

  *
    shuttle
    <http://kron4.com/2016/11/14/reducing-commuter-shuttle-stops-could-put-more-cars-on-the-road-study-says/>



      Reducing shuttle stops could put more cars on the road
      <http://kron4.com/2016/11/14/reducing-commuter-shuttle-stops-could-put-more-cars-on-the-road-study-says/>

  *
    trump-letters
    <http://kron4.com/2016/11/14/portola-valley-first-graders-letters-to-trump-goes-viral/>



      Portola Valley first graders’ letters to Trump goes viral
      <http://kron4.com/2016/11/14/portola-valley-first-graders-letters-to-trump-goes-viral/>


  KRON Resource Links

KRON Links <http://kron4.com/category/news/news-links/> *KRON LINKS*
<http://kron4.com/category/news/news-links/> as mentioned on KRON News
KRON Weather <http://kron4.com/category/weather/> *Bay Area Weather*
<http://kron4.com/category/weather/>
KRON Report <http://kron4.com/contact-us/> *Report It!*
<http://kron4.com/contact-us/> Submit a tip to KRON
KRON 4 App Get KRON 4 App [*iPhone/iPad*
<https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/kron-4/id472672814?mt=8>] [*Android*
<https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.linmedia.newstouch.ksnw>]


<http://kron4.com/category/advertise-with-kron/>

Advertisement

Advertisement

Advertisement


    KRON4.com <http://kron4.com/>

© Copyright 2000 - 2016 Young Broadcasting of San Francisco, Inc. A
Media General Company.

Powered by WordPress.com VIP
<https://vip.wordpress.com/?utm_source=vip_powered_wpcom&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=VIP%20Footer%20Credit>


      Sections

  * News <http://kron4.com/category/news/>
  * San Francisco Bay Area Weather <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>
  * Traffic <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
  * Sports <http://kron4.com/category/sports/>
  * Features <http://kron4.com/category/features/>


      Station

  * Contact Us <http://kron4.com/contact-us/>
  * Television Schedule <http://kron4.com/television-schedule/>
  * Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KRON4>
  * Twitter <https://twitter.com/kron4news>


      Business

  * Terms of Use <http://kron4.com/terms-of-use/>
  * FCC Public File <https://publicfiles.fcc.gov/tv-profile/kron-tv>
  * EEO Report
    <https://publicfiles.fcc.gov/tv-profile/kron-tv/equal-employment-opportunity-records/additional-documents/eeo-public-file-reports/f7008eea-d138-0cca-830a-8cfa91a32037/>
  * Children’s Programming
    <https://publicfiles.fcc.gov/tv-profile/kron-tv/programs-list/>
  * Closed Captioning Contact Information
    <http://kron4.com/closed-captioning-contact-information/>
  * Media General <http://mediageneral.com/>


      Follow

  * Subscribe via RSS <http://kron4.com/feed/>
  * Follow us on Twitter <https://twitter.com/kron4news>
  * Join us on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KRON4>
  * Follow us on YouTube <https://www.youtube.com/user/kron4tv>
  * Follow us on Google+ <https://plus.google.com/+kron4tv>
  * Follow us on Pinterest <https://pinterest.com/kron4tv>
  * Follow us on Instagram <https://instagram.com/kron4tv>

<#>
LIVE STREAM:
KRON4 News at 10 PM
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

:)
