  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * The Cannifornian

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

The Mercury News

<http://www.mercurynews.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local

    <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * The Cannifornian

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>


        Shelter celebrates 10 years of service in…
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/shelter-celebrates-10-years-of-service-in-brentwood/>



Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/shelter-celebrates-10-years-of-service-in-brentwood/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/shelter-celebrates-10-years-of-service-in-brentwood/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/shelter-celebrates-10-years-of-service-in-brentwood/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/shelter-celebrates-10-years-of-service-in-brentwood/#print>
*

<#>

Trending:

  * Sherri Papini case
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/sherri-papini-consultant-asked-to-find-another-missing-california-mom/>

  * 49ers should’ve kept Smith
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/purdy-the-kap-vs-alex-argument-is-settled-and-its-become-obvious-the-49ers-made-the-wrong-choice/>

  * Kim K. to divorce?
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/is-kim-kardashian-plotting-to-divorce-kanye-west/>

  * Pitt vs. Jolie
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/brad-pitt-moves-to-seal-documents-in-angelina-jolie-custody-dispute/>

  * After cold snap, rain
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/bay-area-weather-after-cold-snap-rain-on-the-way/>

  * Bay Area poverty
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/more-bay-area-residents-struggling-than-poverty-statistics-indicate/>



News <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>


  Shelter celebrates 10 years of service in Brentwood


Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/shelter-celebrates-10-years-of-service-in-brentwood/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/shelter-celebrates-10-years-of-service-in-brentwood/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/shelter-celebrates-10-years-of-service-in-brentwood/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/shelter-celebrates-10-years-of-service-in-brentwood/#print>
*

By Tammy Hansen <http://www.mercurynews.com/author/tammy-hansen/>	
June 28, 2016 at 7:26 am

BRENTWOOD — Climbing out of the hole of addiction means accepting
structure, building a strong work ethic, and finding faith, according to
one of the first graduates of the Brentwood Shepard’s Gate shelter in
Brentwood.

For Andrea Hiatt, who spoke at the center’s 10th anniversary celebration
on June 23, the home at the end of Sycamore Avenue allowed her to make a
deep commitment to recovery that lasted a year as resident and continues
to this day. Hiatt shared her story during the evening dinner and tour
that drew approximately 100 guests.

The Brentwood facility is the second of two Christian shelters and
recovery homes that help women and children break free from the cycle of
homelessness, addiction and abuse. Women who live at the home agree to a
yearlong structured life that includes everything from Bible study to
budgeting help to job training. They give up their cell phones and
follow a strict lifestyle designed to reset their approach to living.

Hiatt said she was the last of nine children in a family drenched with
alcoholism, addiction and abuse who started drinking at 12 years old.
She underwent therapy for years to quell a “desperate need for
connection” and got clean for about five years in her late twenties and
early thirties. It didn’t last.

When her sister was diagnosed with cancer she relapsed, losing her job
and home. She didn’t even make it to her sister’s funeral. Eventually
she became homeless and ended up at the doorstep of the newly opened
Shepherd’s Gate in Brentwood on July 17, 2006.

She read the scripture that hangs over the door: “Come to me all you who
are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest.”

“I was so tired,” Hiatt said. At 41, “I was tired of the life I was living.”

Hiatt dotted her tear-jerker testimony with a bit of humor, comparing
her downfall to a country song and teasing the facility for its
housework policies of “cleaning, cleaning, cleaning.” The story overall
story was a somber one, but had a happy ending. She was able to visit a
dying best friend, handling the event with love and grace a few months
after moving into the house. A decade later, she is still clean, works
at a house manager at the facility, and holds a part-time job.

“I learned that my feelings won’t kill me and that I can get through the
storm with help from God,” she said.

Helping others is part of her daily life now, she said. She is an active
member of Narcotics Anonymous and a frequent mentor for several chapters.

“I get to show that a first class life is possible,” she said.

Recently hired Director Mary Norcross said the Brentwood home has housed
800 women and children in its decade of existence. Women who come to the
home go through a 45-day evaluation and then three, 90-day sessions in
which they learn skills to help them lead better lives when they leave.
Shepherd’s Gate keeps in contact with graduates. For example, one
speaker said the facility still provides her children with new backpacks
for each school year.

Norcross said women who come to the shelter must be willing to work for
their recovery. “We are not a Band-Aid.” Still, 89 percent of the
graduates remain on the straight path.

For Shepherd’s Gate donor Jerry Stone, the long-term program of recovery
at the shelter is one of its appeals.

“I like the idea that they’re here for a whole year. It’s not a
quick-fix problem,” said the owner of Jack Stone Insurance Agency Inc.,
Brentwood.

He added that Hiatt’s story was sobering, given her rapid fall from a
seeming life of successful rehabilitation before she came to Shepherd’s
Gate.

“It tells you it could happen to anybody,” he said.

It takes a lot of donations, big and little, to keep the facility
running, said Development Officer Stephanie Fischer. The facility just
recently got a sign out front to identify it, and many East County
residents are unaware of the program.

The nonprofit facility is seeking help in many forms. Residents can
donate goods, their time or money. The home announced a monthly giving
program at the anniversary celebration.

Perhaps more important, Fischer wants to be sure women like Hiatt can
find their way to the house on Sycamore Avenue.

“We need people to know we are here,” she said.

For more information on Shepherd’s Gate, go to http://shepherdsgate.org
<http://shepherdsgate.org/>.

         

         

—

Review: Samsung Fixes the TV Remote
<http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>

Sponsored Content


        Review: Samsung Fixes the TV Remote
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>


By Samsung
<http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=lnMCAb3YKArLEPA&ntv_fr>

Geoffrey A. Fowler tests Samsung’s 2016 TVs, which have one smart
clicker to control all our cable boxes, disc players, video streamers
and apps


Tammy Hansen <http://www.mercurynews.com/author/tammy-hansen/>

Subscribe Today! All Access Digital offer for just 99 cents!
<https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dsssubscribe.aspx>
 
You Might Also Like

  *
    Get a glimpse of an amazing future enabled by the data center in
    Servers Rock: Our Connected Earth Get a glimpse of an amazing future
    enabled by the data… Intel Servers Rock
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/310019250;137045041;h>
  *
    How Do Your Sales Strategies Rate Worldwide? Get This Report How Do
    Your Sales Strategies Rate Worldwide? Get This… Salesforce
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/314701008;142500863;o>
  *
    Discover the future of buying power as you explore new server
    solutions from Intel and Microsoft Discover the future of buying
    power as you explore new… Intel Servers Rock
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/310638932;138208410;x> 

  *
    10 Best Rewards Cards: Get $150 Bonus Cashback 10 Best Rewards
    Cards: Get $150 Bonus Cashback GET.com
    <https://www.get.com/credit-cards-best-bonus-offers/?ad=outbrain_bonus_150&utm_medium=cpc&utm_source=outbrain_248358&utm_campaign=outbrain_bonus_150_69875867&oclid=ff7705590ad38c351d9c4c7d15a4ed81>

  *
    How I Finally Understood My 401(k)… in 10 minutes How I Finally
    Understood My 401(k)… in 10 minutes Mint.com
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/trackclk/N9515.186294OUTBRAININC0/B8198435.127074735;dc_trk_aid=300209997;dc_trk_cid=58834128;dc_lat=;dc_rdid=;tag_for_child_directed_treatment=>

  *
    Tips on How To Become a Manager Tips on How To Become a Manager CAL
    STATE MONTEREY BAY
    <https://mba.csumb.edu/blog/tips-on-how-to-become-a-manager?utm_source=Outbrain&utm_medium=Online%20Media&utm_campaign=CSUMB_Native>


  *
    Melania Trump’s nude photos: Who leaked them? Melania Trump’s nude
    photos: Who leaked them? MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/08/01/melania-trumps-nude-photos-who-leaked-them/>

  *
    Two San Jose men receive maximum sentences in street racing death
    Two San Jose men receive maximum sentences in street…
    MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2010/08/20/two-san-jose-men-receive-maximum-sentences-in-street-racing-death/>

  *
    Ask Amy: My husband won’t have sex with me, but my ex will Ask Amy:
    My husband won’t have sex with me, but my ex… MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/10/22/ask-amy-wife-gets-back-in-bed-with-ex/>


Recommended by<http://www.outbrain.com/what-is/default/en>

Sign up for our newsletters!

Subscribe <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
Follow Us

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>


    Most Popular

 1. Oakland fire aftermath: Evictions as artists’ worst fears come true

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/evictions-in-ghost-ships-wake-artists-worst-fears-coming-true/>

 2. Kim Kardashian is plotting to divorce Kanye West, one report says

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/is-kim-kardashian-plotting-to-divorce-kanye-west/>

 3. San Jose: Firefighters knock down abandoned home fire, suspect squatter

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-jose-firefighters-knock-down-abandoned-home-fire-suspect-squatter/>

 4. Oakland warehouse fire: Officials release names of 9 more victims

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/oakland-warehouse-fire-search-for-victims-85-percent-complete-death-toll-still-36/>

 5. Purdy: It’s now obvious the 49ers should have kept Smith, not
    Kaepernick

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/purdy-the-kap-vs-alex-argument-is-settled-and-its-become-obvious-the-49ers-made-the-wrong-choice/>

 6. Eddy Lepp free after 10-year sentence for growing marijuana

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/cannabis-convict-eddy-lepp-free-after-long-prison-term/>

 7. Sherri Papini ‘consultant’ asked to find another missing California mom

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/sherri-papini-consultant-asked-to-find-another-missing-california-mom/>

 8. Oakland: Artists, restaurant at odds over Salt Lick warehouse
    following deadly Ghost Ship blaze

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-artists-restaurant-at-odds-over-salt-lick-warehouse/>


OFF
ON

Aa
Aa
Aa
Aa

02:0202:02

  *

    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news...

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Responders talk about Oakland warehouse fire

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31711792&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news...

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>



        More videos:

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news conference
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Responders talk about Oakland warehouse fire
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31711792&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news conference
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Responders talk about Oakland warehouse fire
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31711792&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news conference
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Responders talk about Oakland warehouse fire
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31711792&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>



    More in News

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/judge-to-weigh-in-on-buena-vista-closure/>

    Whether Palo Alto city leaders will re-evaluate their 2015 decision
    to allow property owners to close Buena Vista Mobile Home Park will
    be up to Santa Clara County Superior Court Judge Brian Walsh, who
    took the case under submission on Wednesday after hearing oral
    arguments from attorneys representing mobile home park residents,
    the city of Palo Alto and property owners. He's expected to make a
    decision within 90 days.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/judge-to-weigh-in-on-buena-vista-closure/>



              Buena Vista residents say city should reverse closure
              decision
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/judge-to-weigh-in-on-buena-vista-closure/>


    December 07, 2016, 10:55 pm

    Whether Palo Alto city leaders will re-evaluate their 2015 decision
    to allow property owners to close Buena Vista Mobile Home Park will
    be up to Santa Clara County Superior Court Judge Brian Walsh, who
    took the case under submission on Wednesday after hearing oral
    arguments from attorneys representing mobile home park residents,
    the city of Palo Alto and property owners....

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/flashing-crosswalks-bright-led-lights-being-installed-to-make-streets-safer/>

    Flashing crosswalks, bright LED lights being installed to make
    streets safer
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/flashing-crosswalks-bright-led-lights-being-installed-to-make-streets-safer/>



              Flashing crosswalks, bright LED lights being installed to
              make streets safer
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/flashing-crosswalks-bright-led-lights-being-installed-to-make-streets-safer/>


    December 07, 2016, 10:07 pm

    The streets in District 6 are becoming safer for bicyclists and
    pedestrians; Lincoln Avenue in Willow Glen is getting new LED street
    lights and several other areas are getting pedestrian-activated
    crosswalk lights. New decorative bike racks are also being added in
    Willow Glen and on The Alameda.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-fire-search-completed-while-cause-remains-a-mystery/>

    Five days after the most deadly fire in Oakland history ravaged an
    artists' labyrinthine lair in the Fruitvale District, killing 36
    people trapped in the smoke and flames as the top floor and roof
    gave way, firefighters wrapped up their search Wednesday, leaving
    federal and local investigators on scene to figure out what caused
    the so-called Ghost Ship to suddenly go up in flames.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-fire-search-completed-while-cause-remains-a-mystery/>



              Oakland fire search completed while cause remains a
              mystery
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-fire-search-completed-while-cause-remains-a-mystery/>


    December 07, 2016, 9:33 pm

    Five days after the most deadly fire in Oakland history ravaged an
    artists’ labyrinthine lair in the Fruitvale District, killing 36
    people trapped in the smoke and flames as the top floor and roof
    gave way, firefighters wrapped up their search Wednesday, leaving
    federal and local investigators on scene to figure out what caused
    the so-called Ghost Ship to suddenly...

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-mateo-fatal-fire-ruled-arson/>

    A three-alarm fire at a house where a woman was found dead last
    month was intentionally set, police said Wednesday.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-mateo-fatal-fire-ruled-arson/>



              San Mateo: Fatal fire ruled arson
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-mateo-fatal-fire-ruled-arson/>


    December 07, 2016, 7:04 pm

    A three-alarm fire at a house where a woman was found dead last
    month was intentionally set, police said Wednesday.

  * Member Services <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
  * News Alerts <https://digioh.com/BANG/general?source=TakeAction>

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>

  * Subscribe

    <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx?pid=22>

    <#>
      o Manage Your Subscription <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
      o All Access Subscriptions <http://www.bayareanewsaccess.com/>
      o Today’s e-Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
      o Newsletter Sign-Up <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
      o Mobile Apps <http://www.mercurynews.com/mobile/>
  * Contact Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/contact-us/>

    <#>
      o Corrections <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/corrections/>
      o Reprints <http://www.mercurynews.com/reprints/>
      o Archive Search <http://www.mercurynews.com/archive-search/>
      o Lottery <http://www.mercurynews.com/lottery/>
  * Classifieds

    <http://marketplace.bayareanewsgroup.com/marketplace/>

    <#>
      o Autos <http://www.norcaldrives.com/>
      o Jobs <http://www.mercurynews.com/jobs/>
      o Real Estate <http://realestate.mercurynews.com/>
      o Place an Obituary
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
      o Place a Legal Ad
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/legals/index.html>
  * Advertise With Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/advertise/>

    <#>
      o Today’s Ads <http://ads.mercurynews.com/>
      o Weekly Ads <http://www.mercurynews.com/weekly-ads/>
      o Local Guide <http://mylocal.mercurynews.com/>
      o Fry’s Ad
        <http://newspaperads.mercurynews.com/FSI/tiles.aspx?advid=200177&loc=53824>
      o Public Notices <http://capublicnotice.com/>

  * © 2016 Digital First Media <http://www.digitalfirstmedia.com/>
  * Site Map <http://www.mercurynews.com/sitemap.xml>
  * Copyright <http://www.mercurynews.com/copyright/>
  * Privacy Policy <http://www.mercurynews.com/privacy-policy/>
  * Arbitration
    <http://local.digitalfirstmedia.com/common/dfm/arbitration.pdf>
  * Powered by WordPress.com VIP <https://vip.wordpress.com/>
  * Bay Area News Group

    <http://www.bayareanewsgroup.com/>

:)


      Email This Article

Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel

<#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

Quantcast
Quantcast
