//

<#>
//

<#>

  * News <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/view-all-blog-articles>
  * Identities <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/identities>
  * Entertainment <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/entertainment>
  * Music <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/music>
  * Lifestyle <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/lifestyle>

logo <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/>
WYV Exclusive
Sign-up to our mailing list!

  *

    <https://www.facebook.com/wyvmag/>
  *

    <https://twitter.com/wearyourvoice>
  *

    <https://www.instagram.com/wearyourvoicemag/>
  *

    <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCWUELcfXOqUhhlpRW5l5TcA>

//
*Prove your humanity: * 9   +   7   =  
Lost your password?
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/wp-login.php?action=lostpassword&wpe-login=ravneetvohra>


//
//

  * News

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/view-all-blog-articles>
  * Identities

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/identities>
  * Entertainment

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/entertainment>
  * Music

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/music>
  * Lifestyle

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/lifestyle>
  * // Trending

    <#>


        // Trending

    Now

    <#>Week

    <#>Month

    <#>

        Not enough data yet, please check again later.

  * //

    <#>


  Simply the Basics Creates First-Ever Shame-Free Hygiene Bank for
  Homeless Folks

Laurel Dickman <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/laurel-dickman>//Jun
29, 2016//Social Justice
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/social-justice>
Home <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/>//More
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more>//Social Justice
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/social-justice>

 

simply-basics

The homelessness epidemic grows as our cities’ populations expand beyond
our infrastructure’s means (or willingness) to accommodate citizens’
basic needs — like living wages, shelter and even hygiene.

Simply The Basics fills one gap that many cities leave open. The
nation’s first ever hygiene bank, Simply The Basics, offers those in
need access to hygiene products and life skills. They hope to relieve
other nonprofits of the operational challenge of collecting, storing and
distributing hygiene products, so that they are able to turn their focus
toward other barriers.

Inspired by Abraham Maslow’s *Hierarchy of Needs *—* *the philosophy
that people are unable to focus on any needs higher than their current
level in the hierarchy — the organization allows those in need to focus
on their next hurdles like food, shelter and basic hygiene. Without
those absolute base human needs, you cannot move toward employment,
sobriety, mental and physical health and eventually self-actualization.

Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs.

Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs.

Simply The Basics includes four core programs: The Academy, Basic Needs,
Location Services and The Marketplace.

The Academy helps its participants see beyond their immediate needs and
into the future, allowing them to eventually break the cycle of
homelessness and poverty. Trained volunteers teach participants core
life skills (such as communications and anger management), job readiness
(resume writing, mock interviews and specific classes to teach skills
like office and food service) and enrichment classes (such as yoga,
creative writing, knitting and more). Simply The Basics has partnered
with several shelters in the San Francisco Bay Area to bring classes
directly to their clients. Every class includes all materials, as well
as hygiene kits and healthy snacks.

*Related: For Many California Residents, Homelessness is No More Than
One Crisis Away
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/homelessness-just-one-crisis-away>*

The Basic Needs <http://www.simplythebasics.org/basic-needs/> program is
there to safely provide people and organizations in need with
essentials, while removing the dehumanization of handouts and empowering
them to have the dignity and benefits that come with making choices. By
providing a sustainable and reusable Simply the Basics tote bag with
necessary items — particularly those that are not often donated or not
covered by food stamps, such as feminine hygiene products, toothbrushes
and toothpaste, toiletries,  soap and more — Simply The Basics equips
its clients with tools to take care of themselves and rebuild their
independence.

Location Services
<http://www.simplythebasics.org/locate-services/> helps homeless folks
more easily find the programs they need.  The programs may be there, but
there is a lot of red tape to cut through, which often causes those who
are already depressed and in a tough situation to become positively
hopeless. The time of day, day of the week, location, relationship
status, circumstances, age, language, wait lists and many more elements
can affect where a person is able to stay. Simply The Basics solves this
problem by allowing anyone to easily access services based on their
needs at that given time. Available on mobile app or computer, the
search is location- and time-sensitive so that anyone can find the
closest program based on specific search components with availability at
that exact time. By keeping it simple, Simply The Basics allows more
folks to reach the resources and help that they so desperately need.

Simply The Basics is building a marketplace
<http://www.simplythebasics.org/the-marketplace/> similar to
Craigslist where individuals or nonprofits can list anything they would
like to donate, and nonprofits can simply search to find what they are
looking for. Donations are open to the public, but only a registered
nonprofit has access to receive the donated goods.  Sometimes donations
go to organizations that simply do not need them. While someone may give
a donation of socks and soap, not every nonprofit is in need of socks at
that time. Conversely, a nonprofit may find themselves in need of socks
and unsure where to begin finding ones to be donated. The Marketplace
ensures all donations are put to good use by linking everyone together.


    Want to help the hygiene bank?

You can go to SimplyTheBasics.org <http://www.simplythebasics.org/> to
find you can donate or volunteer.

|

|


      Comments

Share This Post:
/

/
Previous Article
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/feminism/decolonizing-my-pussy-moving-through-body-shame-gender-dysphoria-sexual-abuse>Decolonizing
My Pussy: Moving Through Body Shame, Gender Dysphoria, & Sexual Abuse
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/feminism/decolonizing-my-pussy-moving-through-body-shame-gender-dysphoria-sexual-abuse>
/

/
Next Article
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/fashion/potus-designates-stonewall-first-lgbtqia-monument>Obama
Dubs Stonewall 1st LGBTQIA Monument
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/fashion/potus-designates-stonewall-first-lgbtqia-monument>
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/laurel-dickman>
Laurel Dickman <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/laurel-dickman>
Content, Marketing and Communications

Laurel Dickman is an intersectional feminist, plus size model, stylist,
and fat activist that can also be found via her blog, Exile In Dietville
and the music magazine SF Sounds. She grew up in the south between
Florida and North Carolina, migrating to the Portland, OR in 2005. All
three places inform her perspective of the world around her a great
deal. While in Portland, she worked with the Alley 33 Annual Fashion
Show, PudgePDX, PDX Fatshion, Plumplandia, and numerous other projects
over the near decade that she was there. In August of 2014, she moved to
the Bay area with her partner, David and trusty kitty, Dorian Gray. She
continues her body positive and intersectional feminism through various
forms of activism, fashion, photography projects, and writing mostly in
the East Bay. She can be reached at laurel@wyvmag.com and encourages
readers to reach out to her to work on future projects together.

// <mailto:laurel@wyvmag.com> // <http://laureldickman.wordpress.com/>
// <http://www.twitter.com/laureldickman>


Related Posts

  *
    sad-woman-abortion-wear-your-voice-article
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/body-politics/overcoming-trauma-abortion>


            Overcoming The Trauma of An Abortion
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/body-politics/overcoming-trauma-abortion>

    Laurel Dickman
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/laurel-dickman>//Feb 23, 2016
  *
    Photo by Keoni Cabral.
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/flint-barred-suing-water-crisis>


            Flint Barred from Suing Over Water Crisis by Michigan Gov.
            Rick Snyder’s Political Tricks
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/flint-barred-suing-water-crisis>

    Laurel Dickman
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/laurel-dickman>//Sep 20, 2016
  *
    SF Homelessness Project logo
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/homelessness-problem-lets-fix>


            Dear San Francisco Bay Area: Our Homelessness Problem Is
            Unconscionable. Let’s Fix It.
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/homelessness-problem-lets-fix>

    Beth Winegarner
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/beth-winegarner>//Jun 27, 2016
  *
    Homeless Project: Couple in San Francisco with dog
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/heartstrings-project>


            As Tech Wealth Puts More On the Streets, Heartstrings
            Project Uses Tech to Find Help
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/heartstrings-project>

    Laurel Dickman
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/laurel-dickman>//Jul 5, 2016
  *
    women-facint-jail-lesbians-wear-your-voice-article
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/lgbtq-identities/black-lesbian-couple-wrongfully-sentenced-25-years-kuwaiti-prison-hasnt-u-s-stepped>


            American Women Facing Kuwait Prison Sentence Get Chance to
            Appeal
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/lgbtq-identities/black-lesbian-couple-wrongfully-sentenced-25-years-kuwaiti-prison-hasnt-u-s-stepped>

    Rachel Otis <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/rachel-otis>//Mar 3, 2016
  *
    An abandoned trailer in a trailer park.
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/homelessness-just-one-crisis-away>


            For Many California Residents, Homelessness is No More Than
            One Crisis Away
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/homelessness-just-one-crisis-away>

    Guest Blogger <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/guest-blogger>//Jun
    28, 2016
  *
    Homeless people sleeping at St. Boniface church in San Francisco.
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/cant-fix-homelessness>


            Why Can’t We Seem to Fix Homelessness?
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/cant-fix-homelessness>

    Beth Winegarner
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/beth-winegarner>//Jun 29, 2016
  *
    edwin-lindo-wear-your-voice.jpg
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/politics/voice-voiceless-edwin-lindo-san-franciscos-district-9>


            Voice for the Voiceless: Edwin Lindo for Supervisor in San
            Francisco’s District 9
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/politics/voice-voiceless-edwin-lindo-san-franciscos-district-9>

    Heather Jones <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/heather-jones>//Apr
    22, 2016

  * //

    <#>
  * //

    <#>

logo <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/>

  * Media Kit <http://media.wearyourvoicemag.com/>
  * Our Team <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team-page>
  * Terms of Use <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/terms-of-use>

  * About Us <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/our-story>
  * Writer Submissions <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/writer>
  * CONTACT <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/contact>

  * Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/wyvmag/>
  * Instagram <https://www.instagram.com/wearyourvoicemag/>
  * Twitter
    <https://twitter.com/WearYourVoice?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor>
  * Youtube <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCWUELcfXOqUhhlpRW5l5TcA>

:)
