<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/> Beyond Homelessness

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>
//
<https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fsupportive-housing%2F&text=Solution%20to%20SF%27s%20homeless%20problem%20starts%20with%20supportive%20housing.&hashtags=SFHomelessProject>
// <#>
//
<mailto:?subject=Solution%20starts%20with%20supportive%20housing&body=SF%20Homeless%20Project%3A%20Could%20San%20Francisco%20increase%20its%20stock%20of%20supportive%20housing%20by%20enough%20units%20to%20get%20the%20neediest%20homeless%20people%20off%20its%20streets%20in%20two%20years%3F%0A%0Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fsupportive-housing%2F>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
Beyond Homelessness <http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>
//
<https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fsupportive-housing%2F&text=Solution%20to%20SF%27s%20homeless%20problem%20starts%20with%20supportive%20housing.&hashtags=SFHomelessProject>
// <#>
//
<mailto:?subject=Solution%20starts%20with%20supportive%20housing&body=SF%20Homeless%20Project%3A%20Could%20San%20Francisco%20increase%20its%20stock%20of%20supportive%20housing%20by%20enough%20units%20to%20get%20the%20neediest%20homeless%20people%20off%20its%20streets%20in%20two%20years%3F%0A%0Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fsupportive-housing%2F>


  Solution to SF's homeless problem starts with supportive housing

Could San Francisco increase its stock of supportive housing by enough
units to get all of the neediest homeless people off its streets in just
two years?

By Kevin Fagan

June 29, 2016

May 10, 2016 A former heroin addict who has spent many of his 62 years
behind bars, Kenney Williams is grateful for his place in the Health
Department’s Mission Creek housing project near AT&T Park. “If not for
this, I’d be going downhill fast,” he said.Photo: Lea Suzuki, The Chronicle

Fixing San Francisco's homelessness problem is possible.

It will require the addition of thousands of housing units for the
hardest-core homeless people — the ones who wander the streets,
screaming at the invisible, the ones who live in tents on sidewalks and
shoot up in plain sight. The ones who make people who live and visit
here think San Francisco has lost its way.

About this project:

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>

The San Francisco Chronicle has joined with more than 70 other news
organizations to focus attention on the seemingly intractable problem of
homelessness in our region.

Read the letter to the city
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/letter-to-the-city/>.

Other stories and multimedia elements of this project can be found at
sfchronicle.com/homeless <http://sfchronicle.com/homeless>.

The solution is compassionate. It puts counselors on the sites of those
thousands of new housing units, to help the hard-core homeless with
their mental problems and drug addictions. The solution is open-ended.
Many of those now-homeless people will be in taxpayer-funded housing for
the rest of their lives.

The solution is more than theory. Several cities around the nation are
taking steps that have either already eliminated chronic homelessness on
their streets or are close to doing so.

"Absolutely it can be done," said Dennis Culhane, a University of
Pennsylvania professor who specializes in homelessness research. "We
know how to solve this. We have the techniques. It's just a matter of
marshaling the will and the focus."

And best of all, the solution is familiar. Because San Francisco has
tried it, and it has worked.

May 10, 2016 Kenney Williams (right) checks for the correct bin to throw
his plates into after enjoying a Memorial Day barbeque in a community
room at Mission Creek Senior Community in San Francisco.Photo: Lea
Suzuki, The Chronicle

What it takes

Pulling every hard-core homeless person off the streets of San Francisco
would require the creation within two years of 2,500 additional
supportive housing units — housing where mental-health therapists,
substance-abuse counselors and job finders, for those who can handle
employment, are right there, in the building. Then, the city would need
to start relocating people who have been living in such units — in some
cases for years — but can get by in less-intensive housing that is
cheaper for taxpayers.

San Francisco already knows how to get its homeless people into
supportive housing. For more than a decade, it has been a national
leader at it.

The cost to expand its efforts: about $200 million up front to build new
apartments, and about $50 million annually to operate those and other
added units. Overall, that's equal to about 2 percent of just one annual
city budget.

Where could all this housing be created? Throughout San Francisco on
scores of city-owned parking plazas and empty lots, and in vacant
private buildings for sale.

The main barriers, experts say, are the availability of immediate
funding and the need to defuse likely neighborhood opposition. But those
barriers have been surmounted elsewhere.

Salt Lake City did it, crafting a widespread network of housing and
counseling clusters that keeps its streets cleared. Houston is close to
that. So are St. Louis, Long Beach and Glendale in Los Angeles County.

June 3, 2014 Case manager Nils Abramson walks the halls of the Sunrise
Metro supportive housing complex in Salt Lake City. The city has crafted
a network of housing and counseling clusters that keeps its streets
clear.Photo: Brant Ward, The Chronicle

San Francisco would not be starting from scratch. It headed down this
road more than 10 years ago. But with the lessons learned over the past
decade, it can be done better now.

The city's 10-Year Plan to Abolish Chronic Homelessness, created by
then-Mayor Gavin Newsom in 2004, laid out the need to house all 3,000
"chronically homeless" people at the time — more than are on the streets
today. Twelve years later, the city has about 6,000 units in which
formerly homeless people are living.

But because more homeless people keep showing up, the city hasn't been
able to get ahead of the problem. It doesn't have to be that way.

Rahul Mukherjee/The Chronicle
Source: U.S. Census, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
The troubled landscape

Here's the core problem facing San Francisco:

The term "chronically homeless" describes severely dysfunctional people
who live outside most or all of the time and suffer from multiple
problems, including substance abuse or mental illness. An estimated
1,500 of San Francisco's roughly 6,700 street people — the total counted
in the city's homeless census of 2015 — are chronically homeless, and
each costs the city about $80,000 each year in police, ambulance,
hospital and other emergency services.

That cost per person is far higher than for the other 5,100 people
considered homeless, but who are generally without homes only
intermittently and suffer fewer dysfunctions. Those people can be housed
with government rent subsidies, or find jobs with city help, or move in
with family — options that don't require extensive taxpayer outlays.

It's the 1,500 hard-core street people — a federal estimate, though the
city's limited survey put the total a little higher — who create the
Dickensian spectacle of camps and chaos on the streets.

Since the early 2000s, the city's main goal has been to get those
chronically homeless people into supportive housing. Once people move
into that kind of housing, they stay in it — city studies show that 95
percent of those in the best supportive programs stay indoors long term.

Officials estimate, though, that at least 450 new chronically homeless
people appear on San Francisco's sidewalks every year, both from within
and outside the city, meaning public services can never catch up.

Rahul Mukherjee/The Chronicle
Source: San Francisco Budget and Legislative Analyst's Office

How to overcome that math? Create enough supportive housing quickly
enough to move all 1,500 chronically homeless people off the street,
plus another 1,000 units to take in the next two years' worth of new
arrivals while the housing is being built.

That's 2,500 new units the city would have to create. It would also then
need to ramp up programs to handle the newly housed.

Not cheap

The cost would be significant.

Supportive housing units cost $400,000 each to construct from the ground
up, whether they are part of a larger affordable-housing complex or in
stand-alone buildings of their own. The city could start its ramp-up by
building 500 of those.

That's how about half of the 1,700 units run by the city Department of
Public Health's Direct Access to Housing program were created. Long one
of the nation's premier programs, it surrounds chronically homeless
people with counseling and medical services provided mostly by
nonprofits. It will be key to any expansion of housing, absorbing the
most dysfunctional people.

"Master lease" housing, on the other hand, comes without construction
costs. That's how the majority of the other supportive housing units
were created in San Francisco since 2004 — by the city entering into
contracts with the owners of existing buildings, generally rundown
residential hotels, to have them renovated at the owners' cost. The city
then rents them and pays nonprofits to provide supportive services. The
advantage for the owners is they get steady, reliable rent checks.

There are roughly another 1,000 such units available to the city that it
could easily obtain to lease, said Randy Shaw, who as head of the
Tenderloin Housing Clinic has the most contracts with the city for the
master-lease complexes. If the city started the process today, he said,
those units could be available to house chronically homeless people in
two years.

That makes 1,500 newly available units, still 1,000 or so short of what
the city would need to make changes quickly. One possibility for filling
the gap: tiny homes in "Lego"-style stacking units.

Rahul Mukherjee/The Chronicle
Source: Department of Public Health and Human Services Agency
Up in months

Resembling metal shipping containers, but attractively appointed, they
are prefabricated and can be constructed in months, not years, and cost
just $200,000 apiece.

More than 100 have recently been built in both New York and Los Angeles
to house homeless people. Now, developer Patrick Kennedy, who has
already sold market-rate versions in San Francisco, wants to build as
many as 1,000 such units in five or more complexes as supportive housing
for the city.

July 15, 2014 Developer Patrick Kennedy wants to build up to 1,000 tiny
prefabricated homes in San Francisco in five or more complexes as
supportive housing for the city.Photo: Michael Macor, The Chronicle

The construction would be free. In return for using city land such as
vacant fields or parking lots, Kennedy said, he would erect his units
and lease them to the city for $1,000 a month each. He's been pitching
the plan in private for months, and Mayor Ed Lee and several of his
homeless advisers say they like the idea.

"We can build thousands of units on empty parking lots," Lee said. "Tiny
houses? I'm open to any idea, and this can bring the cost of
construction way down."

"We're ready to go," said Kennedy, who plans to put one of the units on
display in front of his office at Ninth and Mission streets in August.
"We can build pretty much anywhere — small lots, parking lots, and we
can go high-rise to maximize the land space. It's not crappy housing.
It's a modern look, nice. And we can build fast — six months, start to
finish."

So, the total construction tab for adding 2,500 supportive housing units
within two years? About $200 million for 500 conventionally built units,
and no cost for 1,000 Lego units and 1,000 converted residential hotel
units.

The ongoing annual cost of supportive services for 2,500 people? About
$20,000 per person, or $50 million a year.

Two big barriers

There is plenty of public land available, as well as private land that
could be bought or leased. The city administrator's office reported this
year that there are as many as 50 usable pieces of property, ranging
from open spaces to empty lots and community gardens. The obstacles:
money, and getting around neighborhood objections.

One way to avoid fights with residents would be to keep the projects
small enough so they don't overwhelm a neighborhood, Kennedy and city
advisers said. And with the proper amount of on-site counseling, the
neighborhood doesn't have to suffer. The Health Department's Direct
Access to Housing has shown that repeatedly, such as with its model
Mission Creek Housing project near AT&T Park.

Video: Erin Brethauer and Tim Hussin, The Chronicle
Edited by Erin Brethauer

There, 51 chronically homeless people live in showpiece apartments
alongside million-dollar condos. There is at least one social worker or
counselor on hand for every 15 residents. One of the residents is Kenney
Williams, a one-armed former heroin addict who has spent many of his 62
years in prison for drug-related crimes.

Today, he's not shooting up or passing out in the street. He looks like
any other resident as he strolls past his neighbors' expensive homes.
It's impossible to tell the difference between his complex and theirs —
a technique used to great effect in the past few years at supportive
housing complexes in Glendale, Salt Lake City and Long Beach.

"If not for this, I'd be going downhill fast," Williams said.

May 10, 2016 Kenney Williams (right) talks with tenant Sinnamond on a
garden terrace at Mission Creek Senior Community in San Francisco.Photo:
Lea Suzuki, The Chronicle

"You want to fit into the community, not disrupt it," said Margot
Antonetty, head of Direct Access to Housing. "I think we've done that
pretty well."

Private lots are also available all over the city. "There are a number
of sites that have just one-story (buildings) on them, or are vacant,
but they're so expensive it makes it very difficult," said Don Falk,
head of the Tenderloin Neighborhood Development Corp., one of the
leading supportive housing developers in the city. "We've been out
looking, and we find places. But we don't have the money."

Paying for it

Funding, however, doesn't have to be a high hurdle.

Culhane, the University of Pennsylvania professor, points out that much
of the annual $20,000 per-person cost for supportive services is paid
for by the state and federal governments through housing subsidies,
disability and other payments — and that assistance is about to grow.

"Medicaid just put out new guidelines for New York and California that
say you can now use Medicaid to underwrite almost all of the
supportive-service costs, such as housing deposits and counseling that
wasn't picked up before," Culhane said. "This is very big."

State and city officials are still calculating the new savings, but
program leaders say they will be significant. The Corporation for
Supportive Housing, a national nonprofit active in San Francisco, says
they could save the city millions of dollars a year.

As for the $200 million cost for new construction: Last year, San
Francisco voters approved a $310 million affordable-housing bond. A
supportive housing bond measure that promised to end chronic
homelessness could hold the same allure for voters. That's certainly
what the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors is hoping for: It just
put a bond issue on the November ballot that would raise $700 million
for homeless supportive housing, the most ever in the Bay Area.

But in San Francisco, public bond money might not even be necessary.

Philip Mangano, national homeless czar under former President George W.
Bush and President Obama, has advised policy leaders from Boston to
Santa Clara County on a financing plan he calls "pay for performance."
Investors put up millions of dollars to fund government housing or
services. Then, if the projects save money, the government pays
investors back, with interest, in large part with the savings.

What are the savings in this case? Remember, each chronically homeless
person who isn't in supportive housing costs San Francisco taxpayers an
average of $80,000 a year in jail expenses, ambulance rides and
emergency care. Add it up, that's $120 million total. But if the city
can get all those people in supportive housing, the cost is $20,000 per
person annually, or $30 million.

In theory, at least, that leaves as much as $90 million in "savings"
that could go to homeless-housing investors. Yes, that's money that the
city is already spending — but this way it could be spent on clearing
the streets and improving lives.

In the past year, hundreds of supportive housing units have been built
with this financing near Boston, and hundreds are being planned in Los
Angeles. Housing and services for about 200 hard-core street people are
in the works in Santa Clara County under the same model.

"Give the investors a 5 to 7 percent return on the investment," said
Mangano, who heads the American Round Table to Abolish Homelessness
nonprofit. "They would have incentive to work as fast as possible.
You'll need wealthy investors — but don't you have a lot of very wealthy
people now in the Bay Area?"

Handling the influx

Finally, how can the city handle the influx of 450 new chronically
homeless people who begin living on its streets every year?

One way, which would not require building hundreds of additional
supportive housing units, is surprisingly simple: Make space available
in the supportive housing the city already has.

Not everyone now in supportive housing requires all it offers. Some
people simply need affordable housing — apartments or rooms priced low
enough that they can pay the rent, probably with the help of government
subsidies.

Dec. 9, 2014 Joe Jackson looks over his economics homework in the room
he now calls home. Jackson is a formerly homeless military veteran who
has moved into the new supportive housing complex for veterans on Kearny
Street in San Francisco.Photo: Brant Ward, The Chronicle

The city's welfare chief, Trent Rhorer, estimates that nearly one-third
of the people now living in supportive housing could be transitioned
into simple affordable housing. Considering there are about 6,000 people
living in supportive housing, that means about 2,000 spots could be
freed up to handle annual influxes for at least four years.

"We can get to an effective zero number of chronically homeless people
on the streets, but we have to understand that there are folks who need
the wraparound services, and there are many who don't," said Rhorer, who
as Human Services Agency executive director oversees the majority of
supportive housing in San Francisco.

The 10-year plan for dealing with homelessness that San Francisco
produced in 2004 "came up short not in the number of housing units we
created, but in that we didn't pick carefully enough," Rhorer said.
"There are people who got housed who were just poor — not chronic, not
really needing all the support services. So we need to better develop
the alternatives. About 30 percent of those in our supportive housing
now could actually move into step-up housing — on their own, with
family, or in other subsidized affordable housing without the services."

That step-up is tough to pull off, not just because of the tight housing
market, but because it can be terrifying to think of leaving a sure
thing for less-certain independence. Anakh Sul Rama, 38, has been
struggling with that.

He spent years suffering from HIV-related illnesses and warding off
homophobic attacks in shelters and on the streets. In 2012, Rama scored
a spot in one of Community Housing Partnership's supportive housing
complexes. The partnership's case managers helped him get his sickness
under control and overcome the trauma of having lived outside, and he's
felt ready to shift into a fully independent phase for more than a year
now. But he can't.

Rama did move to a subsidized living complex with fewer supportive
services two years ago, but he hasn't been able to find an apartment he
can afford on his community-organizer salary.

"It's been a crazy, long life dealing with homelessness and doing all
the healing I've had to do," Rama said. "But I need to make sure that
wherever I go, I won't wind up right back where I was before. We have to
create better pathways for people like me to move on."

Success elsewhere

That pathway exists elsewhere. "Moving On," a program being used in New
York, Los Angeles, Atlanta and other cities, has been able to shift as
many as 25 percent of supportive housing residents annually into
less-intensive, more independent housing. Program managers there have
found that it generally takes three to five years for people to be
stabilized enough to make that move.

March 3, 2016 Kevin Lewandowski kisses his service dog, Bella, in his
new supportive housing in Los Angeles' Skid Row. Lewandowski lived on
the streets for 25 years before finally ending up in prison, where he
found God and also got off drugs and alcohol.Photo: Michael Owen Baker,
Special to The Chronicle

In San Francisco, Mayor Lee says he wants to create 30,000 units of
affordable housing over the next four years, or 7,500 a year. City rules
require that 20 percent of affordable-housing units be set aside for
homeless people. So if Lee can make good on his promise, that makes
1,500 units a year for the next four years that could be made available
to people coming out of supportive housing.

It could be, however, that some people coming out of supportive housing
will have to leave the city. The city's biennial counts have shown that
about one-third of San Francisco's homeless population were transients
before they arrived here.

"People don't go to Beverly Hills and say, ‘Give me a free place to
live,' so why do we create the fiction that you can just come here and
get housing?" said Shaw, head of the Tenderloin Housing Clinic. "Perhaps
it makes sense to compassionately, intelligently help them — but not for
staying here. At least for some. The rest of the region should step up
its efforts, too, and help in this."

The way to best determine who might be ready for a change, said Jeff
Kositsky, head of Lee's newly created Department of Homelessness and
Supportive Housing, is to create a system that tracks homeless people to
assess their specific troubles and needs. Service-program managers have
called for such a system for years. Other cities, such as Houston and
Salt Lake City, use them to determine where time is being wasted or
opportunities lost.

The Department of Public Health's street counseling team has already
identified 1,000 of the neediest chronically homeless people through its
in-house tracking system — "and those are the ones we will seek out
first and foremost," Kositsky said. Giving those people healthy,
life-changing stability, he said, will also help transform the landscape
of the city.

"Look, this isn't rocket science," Kositsky said. "We know what to do.
We're not going to get it all done at once. But we need to be creative."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Reporter

Kevin Fagan • kfagan@sfchronicle.com <mailto:kfagan@sfchronicle.com> •
@KevinChron <https://twitter.com/KevinChron>

Interactive producers

Lucio Villa • lvilla@sfchronicle.com <mailto:lvilla@sfchronicle.com> •
@luciovilla <https://twitter.com/luciovilla>
Benjamin Din • bdin@sfchronicle.com <mailto:bdin@sfchronicle.com> •
@benjamindin <https://twitter.com/benjamindin>
Emma O'Neill • eoneill@sfchronicle.com <mailto:eoneill@sfchronicle.com>
• @emmaruthoneill <https://twitter.com/emmaruthoneill>
------------------------------------------------------------------------


        Editorial: SF's homeless problem a civic disgrace

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/civic-disgrace>


        The mentally ill: Streets' costliest residents

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/mental-health>


        Can the shelter system be successful?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/shelters>


        Can law enforcement curb the crisis?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/encampments>


        A problem that looked the same 20 years ago

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/overview>


        How many people live on our streets?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/numbers>


        Portraits of life on SF's streets

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/faces-of-the-streets>


        How SF's last 5 mayors tackled homelessness

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/letters-from-the-mayors>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>


    The sign in service is not functioning right now.


    Please try again in a few minutes

If the issues continue, please contact our customer service at

Phone:

Email:


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in


Don't have a profile?


            Don't have a subscription?

Sign up Subscribe

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a profile using


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password
Send me email offers

Already have a profile? Sign In

By clicking "Next" or signing in you confirm that you accept our Terms
and Conditions <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and have read
and understood our Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in


          Hi,


          You are signed in

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>

Maintain your delivery address, payment details and place a vacation
hold in Subscriber Portal.

MANAGE SUBSCRIPTION

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/account/>

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>
SUBSCRIBE

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>
SIGN OUT

<javascript:void(0)>


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our
Terms of Service <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy
Policy <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign In

Keep me signed in
Show password Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Paid Subscription Access Only

You are now signed in but you must have a San Francisco Chronicle
subscription to access any content.

Already have a subscription?

ACTIVATE

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fsupportive-housing%2F>


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          About Me

DISPLAY NAMEDisplay names must begin with an alpha-numeric character.
They can not contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor
may they contain obscenities.

This display name is already in use. Please enter a different display name.

You must enter a display name.

Display names must begin with an alpha-numeric character. They can not
contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor may they
contain obscenities.

EMAIL ADDRESSChanging this email address will also change the email
address associated with your subscription

You must enter an email address.

GENDERThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

BIRTH YEARThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

* are required fields


          SF Chronicle Subscription

You can manage your delivery address, payment details, delete your
account and more subscription details in the subscriber portal.

Manage Subscription

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/account/>


            Get it on all your devices


    Unlimited digital access with every subscription

SFChronicle.com | App for iPhone and iPad
e-edition (daily print replica) | Exclusive member experiences and discounts

SUBSCRIBE NOW AND SAVE!

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/> I have a subscription

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fsupportive-housing%2F>


          Password

EDIT

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.


          Password

CANCEL

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.

CURRENT PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Current password is incorrect

Current password field is required

NEW PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain both
upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

New password field is required

CONFIRM PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Confirm password field is required

Show password


    Welcome, !

Your profile, subscription, linked accounts, and newsletter selections
are not viewable by other readers on our sites. Your profile can only be
seen by you. Any comments you post to articles on our sites can be seen
by all readers and moderators.


          Newsletter Preferences

You are subscribed to the following:

  * Top O’ the Bay

    The latest stories from across the San Francisco Bay Area

  * Notes & Errata

    Mark Morford's irreverent and highly satiric weekly column

  * Breaking News

    Be notified when when big stories break or critical warnings are
    issued for the Bay Area

  * Sports

    Coverage of all your Bay Area teams

  * Inside Scoop

    Insider knowledge for Bay Area foodies

  * New Flicks

    The latest movie reviews

  * Business & Technology

    The latest in business, finance, and tech news

  * 5 Things To Do

    Great events across the Bay Area selected just for you


          San Francisco Chronicle Newsletters

  * Chronicle Commuter

    A curated selection of stories just in time for your afternoon commute

  * Membership Updates

    The latest from our membership benefits program (subscribers only)

  * e-edition Reminder

    Reminder of your daily e-edition, a replica of the print newspaper
    (subscribers only)

  * Subscription Reminders

    Notices and reminders about your subscription (subscribers only)


          Email Notifications and Offers

  * Feature Updates

    Special features, new site sections and more from The Chronicle and
    SFGATE

  * Promotions & Sales

    Subscription offers from the San Francisco Chronicle and other
    special promotions

  * Surveys

    Surveys about your Chronicle print edition, websites and other
    digital products

  * Advertiser Special Offers

    Receive special offers sent by us on behalf of select advertisers
    and partners

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in Forgot Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

You must be a subscriber to access this content.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

Stay signed in
Forgot Your Password?


          Sign In

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Back to Sign In

Email address field is required.

Email address is incorrect.

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


          Link Profiles

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot Your Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Forgot Your Password?


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Link Profiles

Stay signed in

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Forgot Your Password?


          SIGN IN


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot Your Password?
Keep me signed in


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Sign In With Your Existing San Francisco Chronicle Account
Sign In
OR

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Keep me signed in
Forgot Your Password?

By signing in, you agree to our terms of use
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/>.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password?

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in
Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot password?

Create an account

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a sign-in for your subscription account


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password

Have a profile on SFGate or San Francisco Chronicle already?

Sign In

Contact Customer Service at 800-310-2455 or email us at
homedelivery@sfchronicle.com <mailto:homedelivery@sfchronicle.com>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in

