/

/
// <https://www.facebook.com/48hills> // <https://twitter.com/48hills>
// <#>

  * News + Politics

    <http://48hills.org/news-politics/>
  * Arts + Culture

    <http://48hills.org/arts-culture/>
  * Music + Nightlife

    <http://48hills.org/music-nightlife/>
  * Politics <http://48hills.org/news-politics/>
  * Culture <http://48hills.org/arts-culture/>
  * Nightlife <http://48hills.org/music-nightlife/>
  * Search

    <http://48hills.org/search/>

// <#>
Search

Sponsored link
<http://48hills.org/linkout/17024>
// <#>
48 hills

<http://48hills.org/>

  * News + Politics

    <http://48hills.org/news-politics/>
  * Arts + Culture

    <http://48hills.org/arts-culture/>
  * Music + Nightlife

    <http://48hills.org/music-nightlife/>
  * Politics <http://48hills.org/news-politics/>
  * Culture <http://48hills.org/arts-culture/>
  * Nightlife <http://48hills.org/music-nightlife/>
  * Search

    <http://48hills.org/search/>

//

<#> // <#>

// <https://www.facebook.com/48hills> // <https://twitter.com/48hills>

  * Best of the Bay <http://48hills.org/sections/best-of-the-bay/>
  * Contact <http://48hills.org/contact/>
  * About <http://48hills.org/about/>
  * Newsletter <http://48hills.org/newsletter/>
  * Advertise With Us <http://48hills.org/advertise-with-us/>
  * Shop <http://48hills.org/store/>
  * Donate <http://48hills.org/support-donate/>

  * LOG IN

Welcome! Log into your account
Forgot your password? <#>
Recover your password
Home <http://48hills.org/> // News + Politics
<http://48hills.org/sections/news-politics/>
There are protests in the streets over housing -- and that problem has
its roots in the same economic inequality that's causing huge problems
on the national level

  * News + Politics <http://48hills.org/sections/news-politics/>


  Solving the homeless crisis: Some immediate positive steps

The director of the Coalition on Homelessness talks about how we start
to solve the problem of people forced to live on the streets

By Jennifer Friedenbach <http://48hills.org/author/jennifer-friedenbach/> -
Jun 29th

/Editor’s note: We are joining with other news media to talk about
homeless issues this week. We’ve looked atwhy there are so many people
living on the streets
<http://48hills.org/2016/06/28/for-homeless-people-normal-life-becomes-scary/>
and what life is really like for homeless people.
<http://48hills.org/2016/06/28/for-homeless-people-normal-life-becomes-scary/>
In this piece, Jennifer Freidenbach, director of the Coalition on
Homelessness, talks about how we start to solve the problem of people
forced to live on the streets./

The Homeless Emergency Service Providers Union has put together a budget
proposal and plan that would make a huge dent in the problem. The budget
proposal asks for $13.5 million in new and baseline funding for next year.

Evan Wolkenstein, far left, and Claudia Tirado, second from right, fight
eviction. Keeping people housed is a key element of any homeless policy.
Photo by Sara Bloomberg
<http://i1.wp.com/48hills.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/12/48hillshalprinrally-e1418773002950.jpg>
Evan Wolkenstein, far left, and Claudia Tirado, second from right, fight
eviction. Keeping people housed is a key element of any homeless policy.
Photo by Sara Bloomberg

What would that money pay for? Here are the key things

 1. /Develop a sustainable revenue source for housing, housing, housing/

It’s less expensive to house homeless people then to keep them homeless;
we spend more on health care, social services. and criminal justice
while someone is homeless then we do on housing for them once they are
housed.

We need to double the current number of homeless people being housed in
SF.  We can’t do this overnight, but we can’t put it off either.
Currently we are spending about $70 million to house about 6,000 people.
About half of that housing is master lease, and the other half is
permanent supportive housing. We can’t massively expand the master
lease, because it relies on the current housing stock (We can probably
expand master lease by about 300 units). We have to rely on
construction, rehab and acquisition — we can get creative with pre fab
buildings etc to bring down the price, but this endeavor is achievable.
We just need a sustainable revenue source to do this. We currently spend
less than 3 percent of the city budget towards this issue.

Currently, our housing for homeless people has taken a nose
dive. Between now and 2022, we are only going to build 632 new units for
homeless people. Compare that to 2008-2014 where we did 2,790 units for
homeless people. We decreased the numbers and stopped having 100%
homeless buildings, which is a mistake.

If we think things are bad now…..

 2. / No new jail – but community mental health/

While the number of people in SF county jail has plummeted, the number
of people with mental illnesses in jail has stayed the same. With the
halting of the construction of a new jail, there is an opportunity to
keep jail numbers down by addressing fundamental issue of mental health.
There is also capital money available.  There are lots of different
ideas for this, but pretty much all areas of the mental health system
are in trouble and need expanded capacity.  This includes community
crisis hospital diversion sites like Dore Urgent Care Clinic
<http://sfhomeless.wikia.com/wiki/Dore>, which has to turn people away
with alarming frequency; residential treatment – which only a select few
can access — and outpatient services. Many of us are thinking about a
large mixed use facility that addresses multiple needs, and acts as a
pre-arrest diversion instead of a jail.

 3. / Shifting the status quo from a police response to smart solutions/

The status quo for San Franciscans if they have a homeless neighbor or
encampment is to call the city, which most of the time sends police
officers (or doesn’t respond at all). The police move the person maybe
across the street, or a block away, and another complaint is generated.

Related article  Obama's supply-side toolkit attacks local housing policy

<http://48hills.org/2016/10/04/obamas-supply-side-toolkit-attacks-local-housing-policy/>

Or the person is issued a ticket (27,000 were given out last year 9,000
more than anytime that it was previously recorded). Rarely are any
services offered, and even on those rare occasions that the city sends
an outreach worker, there is rarely housing or treatment available.

In cities like Cleveland, outreach workers are sent, not police. If we
do the first two items on this list, we will have the resources to get
people off the streets instead of just shuffling them around as their
health and mental health deteriorates.

We have to force city officials to change the frankly lazy way they
address this issue. They let an encampment grow until it generates a ton
of complaints, then remove it by pushing people a block away.  We should
have actual planning — a relocation plan — so we solve the issue, and
don’t just pretend to for political gain.

We have a robust $7 million homeless outreach team budget, but no
housing or treatment to place folks in.

The Obama Administration has issued guidelines for addressing
encampments. We have legislation pending that would force the city to be
both accountable to campers/neighbors, and more thoughtful about how
encampments are addressed with a trajectory towards solutions as opposed
to shuffling people around.

 4.  /Better use of public housing/

Public housing has to be a fundamental part of the solution to
homelessness. We have to get creative to move homeless people quickly
into these units. Public housing is getting rebuilt, and both units in
the affordable housing pipeline for homeless people and public housing
units that are vacant are being held for relocation of rehabbed public
housing units.  Once that process is over, and it should be expedited,
we can move homeless people into vacant units.

Sponsored link
<http://48hills.org/linkout/16675>

 5. / Keeping San Franciscans housed — prevention/

We have to close that front door into homelessness. By and large, it is
San Franciscans that make up our homeless population. We need to halt
that by ensuring folks stay in their rent controlled housing.  We know
how to do this as well.  The budget proposal would cover eviction
defense for 450 at-risk households, tenant outreach to 89,000 renters,
back rent for 60 homeless families and a mediation program for 450
public housing tenants.

 6. / Jobs/

We are weak on this front — and about to lose the little that we have.
The federal government just cut the little funding we had for job
training for homeless people.

 7.  /Navigation centers/

We need to bring the lessons of the navigation centers city wide.

 8.  /Quickly housing San Franciscans/

We can use short-term and private-market subsidies to rapidly house
homeless people, and have had tremendous success doing that. Our budget
proposal would house another 370 households.  Using the city budget
process to get these funded has worked well in the past – we have housed
hundreds of homeless people this way.

Related article  Teachers ask Obama admin to (finally) abolish the rogue
accreditor

<http://48hills.org/2016/08/14/teachers-ask-obama-admin-finally-abolish-rogue-accreditor/>

Folks working on these issues know what the solutions are; what we are
lacking is political will.

 


Share this

  * 48Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)48
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/29/solving-homeless-crisis-positive-steps/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/29/solving-homeless-crisis-positive-steps/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/29/solving-homeless-crisis-positive-steps/?share=reddit&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/29/solving-homeless-crisis-positive-steps/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/29/solving-homeless-crisis-positive-steps/?share=linkedin&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/29/solving-homeless-crisis-positive-steps/?share=pocket&nb=1>
  * Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)
    <whatsapp://send?text=Solving%20the%20homeless%20crisis%3A%20Some%20immediate%20positive%20steps%20http%3A%2F%2F48hills.org%2F2016%2F06%2F29%2Fsolving-homeless-crisis-positive-steps%2F>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/29/solving-homeless-crisis-positive-steps/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/29/solving-homeless-crisis-positive-steps/#print>
*

  * TAGS
  * Coalition on Homelessness

    <http://48hills.org/topics/coalition-on-homelessness/>
  * Homeless

    <http://48hills.org/topics/homeless/>
  * Homeless Project

    <http://48hills.org/topics/homeless-project/>
  * Housing

    <http://48hills.org/topics/housing/>

<http://48hills.org/author/jennifer-friedenbach/>
Jennifer Friedenbach <http://48hills.org/author/jennifer-friedenbach/>

Sponsored link
<http://48hills.org/linkout/16650>

More by Jennifer Friedenbach

 1.

    El Nino is a public health crisis — and SF is dropping the ball
    <http://48hills.org/2016/01/22/el-nino-public-health-crisis-sf-dropping-ball/>

More from this section

  *

    More than a million people in SF? Did anyone ask you?
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/28/17209/>

  *

    Developer allies again try to take over Sierra Club
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/28/developer-allies-try-take-sierra-club/>

  *

    The Tom and Tim Show: No more Teflon
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/27/tom-tim-show-no-teflon/>

  *

    The Agenda, Nov. 28-Dec. 4: An honest tenant scorecard
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/27/the-agenda-nov-28-dec-4-an-honest-tenant-scorecard/>

  *

    Standing Rock Diary: ‘I am honored to be a healer warrior’
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/27/i-am-honored-healer-standing-rock/>


        BIG WEEK

Get our weekly newsletter

  *
    Email

  *
    First Name

  *
    Last Name

*

<http://48hills.org/>

ABOUT US
48hills.org is the official publication of the non-profit San Francisco
Progressive Media Company.
Contact Us <http://48hills.org/contact/>
Advertise <http://48hills.org/advertise-with-us/>
Contact us: info@48hills.org <mailto:info@48hills.org>

FOLLOW US
// <https://www.facebook.com/48hills> // <https://twitter.com/48hills>

  * Best of the Bay <http://48hills.org/sections/best-of-the-bay/>
  * Contact <http://48hills.org/contact/>
  * About <http://48hills.org/about/>
  * Newsletter <http://48hills.org/newsletter/>
  * Advertise With Us <http://48hills.org/advertise-with-us/>
  * Shop <http://48hills.org/store/>
  * Donate <http://48hills.org/support-donate/>

© 48hills
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

:)
