//// Sections

<#>
FOX

<http://www.ktvu.com/>

  * News

    <http://www.ktvu.com/news>
  * 2 Investigates

    <http://www.ktvu.com/news/2investigates>
  * Weather

    <http://www.ktvu.com/weather>
  * Contests

    <http://www.ktvu.com/contests>
  * Sports

    <http://www.ktvu.com/sports>
  * Web Links

    <http://www.ktvu.com/web-links>
  * Mornings On 2

    <http://www.ktvu.com/mornings>
  * Frank on Facebook

    <http://www.ktvu.com/frank-somerville>
  * About Us

    <http://www.ktvu.com/ktvu-station>
  * KTVUPlus

    <http://www.ktvu.com/news/ktvuplus>
  * Entertainment

    <http://www.ktvu.com/entertainment>
  * Trending

    <http://www.ktvu.com/trending>

//58° <http://www.ktvu.com/weather>
//

//

<https://www.facebook.com/ktvu>//

<https://twitter.com/KTVU> //

<https://instagram.com/KTVU2>
//

    //

    <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCVhtkN7-c8mA8GXEoxS4YQw> //

    <https://www.pinterest.com/KTVU2> 

Open Search

<#>Close Search

<#>

© Copyright 2000 - 2016 Fox Television Stations, LLC. All Rights Reserved.

Privacy Policy <http://www.ktvu.com/privacy-policy> Terms of Service
<http://www.ktvu.com/terms-of-service> Ad Choices
<http://www.ktvu.com/ad-choices> Public File
<http://www.ktvu.com/about-us/75028016-story>

Video

<http://www.ktvu.com/video>

  * Live

    <http://www.ktvu.com/live>
  * Local News

    <http://www.ktvu.com/news>

  * News

    <http://www.ktvu.com/news>
  * 2 Investigates

    <http://www.ktvu.com/news/2investigates>
  * Weather

    <http://www.ktvu.com/weather>
  * Contests

    <http://www.ktvu.com/contests>
  * Sports

    <http://www.ktvu.com/sports>
  * Web Links

    <http://www.ktvu.com/web-links>
  * Mornings On 2

    <http://www.ktvu.com/mornings>
  * Frank on Facebook

    <http://www.ktvu.com/frank-somerville>
  * About Us

    <http://www.ktvu.com/ktvu-station>
  * KTVUPlus

    <http://www.ktvu.com/news/ktvuplus>
  * Entertainment

    <http://www.ktvu.com/entertainment>
  * Trending

    <http://www.ktvu.com/trending>

//

<https://www.facebook.com/ktvu>//

<https://twitter.com/KTVU> //

<https://instagram.com/KTVU2>//

<https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCVhtkN7-c8mA8GXEoxS4YQw> //

<https://www.pinterest.com/KTVU2>
by Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=myfox-ktvu&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-text-links-a:Popup%20Navigation%20Text%20Links:>by
Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=myfox-ktvu&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-text-links-a:Popup%20Navigation%20Text%20Links:>
More NewsYou May Like
Deadly accident on Hey 580 in Livermore

<http://www.ktvu.com/news/96868080-video>
Woman Destroys Husband's Car After Catching Him With Mistress

<http://www.ktvu.com/news/56598168-story>
Three women stop possible drugged rape attempt

<http://www.ktvu.com/news/149469424-video>
Twin sisters' bickering relationship ends in deadly crash

<http://www.ktvu.com/health/156434110-video>
VIDEO: McDonald's drive-thru customer chokes worker

<http://www.ktvu.com/news/44945825-story>
Toddler dies after siblings lock her in oven

<http://www.ktvu.com/news/53500500-story>
Teens arrested after Sacramento high school brawl

<http://www.ktvu.com/news/40454336-story>
Family returns to China after tragic crash during vacation in Bay Area

<http://www.ktvu.com/news/208229986-video>
Man found fatally shot near Oakland park trail

<http://www.ktvu.com/news/56433145-story>
Bystanders come to aid of ambushed Polk deputy

<http://www.ktvu.com/news/now-trending/17553019-story>
Sponsored Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=myfox-ktvu&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-text-links-a:Popup%20Navigation%20Text%20Links:>Sponsored
Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=myfox-ktvu&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-text-links-a:Popup%20Navigation%20Text%20Links:>
Promoted Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=myfox-ktvu&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-text-links-a:Popup%20Navigation%20Text%20Links:>Promoted
Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=myfox-ktvu&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-text-links-a:Popup%20Navigation%20Text%20Links:>


      Videos

  *

    <http://www.ktvu.com/news/217825862-video>
    On the 150th anniversary of the San Francisco Fire Department, a
    private screening of a documentary made by firefighters that
    chronicles the deadly Gartland Fire, was shown at The New Mission
    Theater.


            /

            /Documentary made by firefighters chronicles deadly SF
            Gartland Fire

  *

    <http://www.ktvu.com/news/217825752-video>
    He made a big political statement by refusing to stand during the
    national anthem. Now 49ers Quarterback Colin Kaepernick is facing
    criticism for not voting in the presidential election. In fact, he's
    never registered to vote.


            /

            /Kaepernick defends decision not to vote

  *

    <http://www.ktvu.com/news/217823969-video>
    Faced with record high enrollment and the need to hire faculty, the
    University of California and California State University systems are
    considering raising tuition for the first time in six years.


            /

            /California universities weigh 1st tuition hikes in 6 years


      Photos

  *

    <http://www.ktvu.com/news/216232886-gallery>
    (Fox News)


            /

            /The unforgettable images from Election Day 2016

  *

    <http://www.ktvu.com/news/213540577-gallery>
    A Marine from Echo Company, 2nd Recruit Training Battalion, hugs his
    loved one after being released for liberty at Marine Corps Recruit
    Depot San Diego, Oct. 20.


            /

            /Marines reunited with their families

  *

    <http://www.ktvu.com/news/politics/212458780-gallery>
    Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump faced off at the University of
    Nevada, Las Vegas for the final time during the last presidential
    debate before the Nov. 8 election.


            /

            /Final presidential debate: Clinton, Trump

© Copyright 2000 - 2016 Fox Television Stations, LLC. All Rights Reserved.

Privacy Policy <http://www.ktvu.com/privacy-policy> Terms of Service
<http://www.ktvu.com/terms-of-service> Ad Choices
<http://www.ktvu.com/ad-choices> Public File
<http://www.ktvu.com/about-us/75028016-story>


  Some San Jose residents turn to RVs for affordable housing

Jesse Gary reports

By: KTVU Staff
<mailto:archarles1@yahoo.com?body=http://www.ktvu.com/news/homeless/166597415-story>


  * //

    <javascript:void(0)>
  * //

    <javascript:void(0)>
  * //

    <javascript:void(0)>
  * //

    <javascript:void(0)>
  * //

    <javascript:void(0)>
  * //

    <#>
  * //

    <#>

*Posted:*Jun 27 2016 03:21PM PDT

*Updated:*Jul 01 2016 11:39AM PDT

*MOUNTAIN VIEW (KTVU)* -- One South Bay community is seeing soaring
demand for housing -- so much so that some residents are redefining the
concept of housing itself.

In the 2300 block of Latham Street, a fleet of old-time RVs line the
street. They aren't parked, however, as play things for the affluent.
These RVs are symbolic of a new concept for affordable housing and
represents a neighborhood within a neighborhood.

"What's happening all over the country is between the housing crisis and
the mortgage thing and just low incomes that we've got, many people that
were middle class before but can't afford rent," said Jess Jessop, who
lives in an RV parked in the Mountain View neighborhood.

<#>


        /

        /Some San Jose residents turn to RVs for affordable housing

//
//


          Homeless


    Some San Jose residents turn to RVs for affordable housing

One South Bay community is seeing soaring demand for housing -- so much
so that some residents are redefining the concept of housing itself.

//

<#>

//

Jessop has been at the helm of his 30-foot Pathfinder motor home for at
least 12 years. It has one bedroom, one bathroom and is also equipped
with one bedroom, one bathroom and comes with captain's chairs and a
steering wheel. He shares the vehicle with his rescue dog, named Yee-Ha.

During the initial dot-com boom, Jessup was CEO owning a majority-stake
in a company similar to Amazon.com, before the latter firm became an
online powerhouse. When the bubble burst happened in 2001, Jessop lost
millions of dollars and his Tahoe home. He and his two sons were forced
to live in a bus, a pre-cursor to the RV he currently calls home.

Now Jessop is trying to catch lightning in a bottle again, hoping that
his new start-up venture will spark the return of traditional home
living. The biggest stumbling block, however, is the cost of South Bay
housing.

"We came down here and looked at the rents and thought there is no way,"
he recalls. "I'm a disabled veteran living on a disability check and
boot-strapping this thing so we got this old motor home and we found
this spot here."

Several of the RV neighborhoods dot the South Bay landscape, like the
area on Crisanto Avenue next to Rengstorff Park, where up to 40 RVs are
parked. In some cases, the RV neighborhoods are near homes whose costs
reach up to $1 million.

According to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development,
people living in the RVs are technically homeless. Said Jessop: "This
might technically be homeless but it beats the heck out of that sidewalk
out there."


        Related Stories

  * Bay Area candidates: Homeless views
    <http://www.ktvu.com/news/homeless/214335104-story>
  * City looks to 'housing first' approach
    <http://www.ktvu.com/news/homeless/168402178-story>
  * California governor approves $2 billion
    <http://www.ktvu.com/news/168331773-story>
  * Seattle eyes rising homeless problem
    <http://www.ktvu.com/news/homeless/167926321-story>

Mountain View city officials say there are at least 287 people who don't
have adequate shelter on any given night. They are working-class
families with kids and pets. Workers at some social service agencies say
they care for about double that number, indicating a growing problem.

Mayor Pat Showalter says parking restrictions only prohibit the size and
extended stays in one parking spot. So people who live in RVs are not
breaking the law.

"They've chosen to be where they wanted to" be, Showalter said. "The
city never instructed them about that. It's just happened organically."

Inocente Saldivar, his wife and two kids were priced out of the rental
market a year ago when their rent hit $2,700 a month for a one bedroom.
Now, he pays $600 a month plus gas to live in an RV. That means his
13-year-old daughter can remain enrolled in the Mountain View school
district.

"The rents are like $3,000," he said. "I need to make maybe $5,000 (a
month) because I'm including my food (costs). It's too expensive. My
family has everything here" in the RV.

 Residents who live in the area say they are empathetic to the plight of
those facing sky high housing costs.

"I think it's terribly said (and) a sign of the times," said Corey
Sommers, who works in the area. "It's a sign that we have a severe
affordable housing crisis in the Bay Area."

Some others complain that living conditions brought on by merging mobile
and conventional homes into one neighborhood can change the quality of
life for the area.

"There's a lot of garbage . . .  a lot of appliance on the street and on
the sidewalks," said one woman who lives in the area and requested
anonymity.

"My daughter is 15," said resident James Smith. "When she has her
friends over at 8 o'clock at night do I want her walking through a motor
home encampment to get to Target? No."

"We do know the hygiene issue is a problem and it's something we have to
solve," the mayor said. "We understand that there are problems for both
the neighbors and the vehicle dwellers and we're trying to be sensitive
to the needs of both groups."

RV residents rely on waste removal trucks to routinely service their
mobile homes. City officials say this does not violate public health
codes as long as the waste is disposed of properly. Social service
providers say the best solution is to create more affordable housing.

There are currently 1,200 residential units classified as affordable and
city officials say another 3,000 are in the pipeline.  And long-term
plans call for the construction of 10,000 units on the Mountain View bay
shore over the next few years.

"We know long-term solutions are really permanent supportive housing for
individuals with disabling conditions," said Ki Le, an official in the
Santa Clara Office of Supportive Housing.

The city is considering implementing a pilot program where those who
live in RVs and other vehicles can park in and not worry about violating
the rights of residential property owners. The plan would call for
allowing inexpensive, overnight parking for 14 families.

Said Jessop: "Until we find a better solution . . . what else can we do?
If you at least manage this it doesn't have to be a ghetto and it
doesn't have to be a problem. It can be a hand up."

Jessop has lobbied Congress in an attempt to make mobile home living
more manageable across the country. He said he plans to keep living
behind the wheel until his new venture takes off and he can park inside
a traditional home.

Saldivar said he and his family will stay in an RV for a second year
because of rising rents. 

"These people have one fingernail trying to hang on to the American
dream and pull themselves up," he said. "If we give them half a chance
they'll all get off the street."

/*By KTVU reporter Jesse Gary.*/
 
/*Copyright 2016 KTVU-TV/FOX 2. All rights reserved. This material may
not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.*/

  * //

    <javascript:void(0)>
  * //

    <javascript:void(0)>
  * //

    <javascript:void(0)>
  * //

    <javascript:void(0)>
  * //

    <javascript:void(0)>
  * //

    <#>
  * //

    <#>

Download the KTVU News App Now

<#> App Store
<https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/ktvu-news-for-ipad/id540006995?mt=8>
Get it on Google Play
<https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.cmgdigital.ktvutvhandset&hl=en>


false
false
false

false
false
false
false
false
false

  *


          Popular

    <#panel-popular>
    false
    false
    false
  *


          Recent

    <#panel-recent>
      o No new beds in mental hospital overcrowding plan

        <http://www.ktvu.com/news/2-investigates/207949716-story>
      o Serial scammer targeting small businesses?

        <http://www.ktvu.com/news/2-investigates/207040296-story>
      o Blacklisted medical van company still driving

        <http://www.ktvu.com/news/2-investigates/206698115-story>
      o 2 Investigates: Nurses say John George mental...

        <http://www.ktvu.com/news/2-investigates/202322119-story>


      Stories You May Be Interested In - Includes Advertiser Stories 

false
false
false

All content © Copyright 2000-2015 Fox Television Stations, Inc. All
Rights Reserved.

