KQED Menu

  *


      KQED Arts

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>

  * KQED Arts Menu

    <#>

  * KQED Arts Home

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Books

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/literature/>
      o Comedy

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/comedy/>
      o Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/culture/>
      o Dance

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/dance/>
      o Digital Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/digitalarts/>
      o Fashion/Design

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/design/>
      o Movies

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/music/>
      o News

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/news/>
      o Performance Art

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/performance/>
      o Pop Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/popculture/>
      o Theater

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/theater/>
      o TV

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/tv/>
      o Visual Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/visualarts/>
  * Programs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs

        <#>
      o Art School

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/artschool/>
      o The Bay Bridged

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/affiliates/the-bay-bridged/>
      o Culture Cue

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/culture-cue/>
      o The Do List

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
      o Earful

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/earful/>
      o Film School Shorts

        <http://blogs.kqed.org/filmschoolshorts/>
      o ImageMakers

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/imagemakers/>
      o Into the Mix

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/into-the-mix/>
      o KQED Pop

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/pop/>
      o Spark

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/spark/>
      o Truly CA

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/trulyca/>
  * Specials

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Specials

        <#>
      o Arts Education

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-in-education/>
      o Arts + Social Issues

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-plus-social-issues/>
      o pARTicipate

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/participate/>
      o Priced Out

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/pricedout/>
      o Our Creative Nature

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/our-creative-nature/>
      o Fall Arts Guide

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/fall-arts-guide-2016/>
  * The Do List

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
  * Videos

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/videos/>

  *


      KQED Arts

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>

  * KQED Arts Home

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Books

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/literature/>
      o Comedy

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/comedy/>
      o Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/culture/>
      o Dance

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/dance/>
      o Digital Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/digitalarts/>
      o Fashion/Design

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/design/>
      o Movies

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/music/>
      o News

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/news/>
      o Performance Art

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/performance/>
      o Pop Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/popculture/>
      o Theater

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/theater/>
      o TV

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/tv/>
      o Visual Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/visualarts/>
  * Programs

    <#>
      o Art School

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/artschool/>
      o The Bay Bridged

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/affiliates/the-bay-bridged/>
      o Culture Cue

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/culture-cue/>
      o The Do List

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
      o Earful

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/earful/>
      o Film School Shorts

        <http://blogs.kqed.org/filmschoolshorts/>
      o ImageMakers

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/imagemakers/>
      o Into the Mix

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/into-the-mix/>
      o KQED Pop

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/pop/>
      o Spark

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/spark/>
      o Truly CA

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/trulyca/>
  * Specials

    <#>
      o Arts Education

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-in-education/>
      o Arts + Social Issues

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-plus-social-issues/>
      o pARTicipate

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/participate/>
      o Priced Out

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/pricedout/>
      o Our Creative Nature

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/our-creative-nature/>
      o Fall Arts Guide

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/fall-arts-guide-2016/>
  * The Do List

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
  * Videos

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/videos/>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California


  KQED Arts <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>

Search

<#search-container>


  KQED Arts Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Search for:

Priced Out <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/pricedout/>


  Stanford’s Virtual Reality Lab Cultivates Empathy for the Homeless

In the study "Empathy at Scale," participants get on a virtual reality
bus, where they can click on a mouse to hear the stories of homeless
people. The computer simulation doesn't feel "real," but it does feel
intimate, as if we're overhearing the thoughts of fellow passengers.

In the study "Empathy at Scale," participants get on a virtual reality
bus, where they can click on a mouse to hear the stories of homeless
people. The computer simulation doesn't feel "real," but it does feel
intimate, as if we're overhearing the thoughts of fellow passengers.
(/Photo: Courtesy Stanford’s Virtual Human Interaction Lab/)

By Rachael Myrow <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/author/rachael-myrow/>
<http://twitter.com/rachelmyrow>
June 27, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/27/stanfords-virtual-reality-lab-cultivates-empathy-for-the-homeless/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/27/stanfords-virtual-reality-lab-cultivates-empathy-for-the-homeless/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * 5Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)5
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/27/stanfords-virtual-reality-lab-cultivates-empathy-for-the-homeless/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/27/stanfords-virtual-reality-lab-cultivates-empathy-for-the-homeless/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/27/stanfords-virtual-reality-lab-cultivates-empathy-for-the-homeless/?share=email&nb=1>
*

The burgeoning field of Virtual Reality — or VR as it is commonly known
— is a vehicle for telling stories through 360-degree visuals and sound
that put you right in the middle of the action, be it at a
crowded Syrian refugee camp
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iXHil1TPxvA&feature=youtu.be&t=6m30s>,
or inside the body of an 85-year-old with a bad hip and cataracts
<https://www.genworth.com/lets-talk/r70i-aging-experience.html>.
 Because of VR’s immersive properties, some people describe the
medium as “the ultimate empathy machine.” But can it make people care
about something as fraught and multi-faceted as homelessness?

A study in progress at Stanford’s Virtual Human Interaction Lab
<https://vhil.stanford.edu/> explores that question, and I strapped on
an Oculus Rift <https://www.oculus.com/en-us/> headset (one of the most
popular devices people currently use to experience VR) to look for an
answer.

*A new way of understanding homelessness*

The study, called /Empathy at Scale
<https://vhil.stanford.edu/projects/2015/empathy-at-scale/>,/ puts
participants in a variety of scenes designed to help them imagine the
experience of being homeless themselves.

'Empathy at Scale,' a computer simulation developed by Stanford
researchers, attempts to help you experience what it is to live as a
homeless person.
‘Empathy at Scale,’ a computer simulation developed by Stanford
researchers, attempts to help you experience what it is to live as a
homeless person. (Photo: Courtesy Stanford’s Virtual Human Interaction Lab)

Unlike VR that uses 360-degree video, this dramatization looks like a
low-fi video game, so it’s hard to mistake it for reality. Even so, my
brain responded to the immersive environment to some extent as if I did
perceive it as real. When a cop pulled up and trained a flashlight into
the car, I physically flinched.

“There are people who come into our lab and say ‘I knew that was fake
the whole time,’” says /Empathy at Scale/ project manager Elise Ogle.
“But for some people, your brain just can’t determine the difference
between real life and this powerful visual stimuli that we’re showing you.”

*The 22 bus line story*

As part of their research for the project, the creators of /Empathy at
Scale/ incorporated local stories about homelessness. One they found
particularly affecting was /Hotel 22/, a short documentary by a Stanford
student filmmaker about Valley Transportation Authority bus line 22
<http://www.vta.org/routes/rt22>, which runs all night between Palo Alto
and San Jose. The line is nicknamed “Hotel 22,” because it’s popular
with homeless people looking for a safe alternative to sleeping on the
streets.

/Hotel 22/ by Elizabeth Lo <https://vimeo.com/138190538> from Short of
the Week <https://vimeo.com/shortoftheweek> on Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/>.

The bus, it turns out, is an ideal virtual reality setting for
delivering a variety of stories that show how complex the problem of
homelessness is. As the bus travels down the street in the VR world, I
click on each passenger, and hear a recording of Ogle telling me how
they got on the bus.

In the back, a man sits with a boy of about 10. “This is a father, Ray,
and his son, named Ethan,” Ogle says in a flat, emotionally neutral
tone. “Ethan’s mother suffered from a chronic illness and recently
passed away. Left with the hospital bills, Ray is in debt. They’re on a
family shelter waiting list. So until free spaces become available, they
sleep on the bus at night./“/

*Empathy is uncomfortable*

Jamil Zaki, an assistant professor of psychology at Stanford’s Social
Neuroscience Lab <http://ssnl.stanford.edu/>, helped the VR team design
its study, and he says we often go out of our way to avoid feeling
empathy. “People are incredibly efficient at cutting the world up into
us and them,” Zaki says. “And when they do so, they’re also incredibly
efficient at cutting off whoever’s on the other side of that boundary.
Even when people acknowledge that someone who’s different from them
experiences pain and suffering, they often find ways to blame that
individual. They say ‘Well, that person’s having a bad time, but it’s
because of the choices that they made.  I would never been in that
position.’”

Virtual Reality & Empathy on KQED

<http://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/2016/04/22/stanfords-virtual-reality-lab-turned-me-into-a-cow-then-sent-me-to-the-slaughterhouse/>

Stanford's Virtual Reality Lab Turned Me Into a Cow, Then Sent Me to the
Slaughterhouse

<http://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/2016/04/22/stanfords-virtual-reality-lab-turned-me-into-a-cow-then-sent-me-to-the-slaughterhouse/>

<https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/2015/10/19/affordable-virtual-reality-creates-worlds-for-people-with-disabilities/>

How Virtual Reality Worlds Inspire People With Disabilities

<https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/2015/10/19/affordable-virtual-reality-creates-worlds-for-people-with-disabilities/>

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/04/29/6x9-solitary-confinement-vr-experience-merges-journalism-and-art/>

'6x9' Solitary Confinement VR Experience Merges Journalism and Art

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/04/29/6x9-solitary-confinement-vr-experience-merges-journalism-and-art/>

But wearing a VR headset that engages your ears, eyes and even
peripheral vision, makes it hard to shut out the pain of the people or
avatars in front of you. “Once you understand the world as someone else
sees it, and inhabit their inner life, you’re on the hook!” Zaki says.
“You now, in essence, have a responsibility to care for that person, and
maybe invest in their well-being.”
As University of Southern California VR researcher Nonny de la Peña
<http://www.immersivejournalism.com/> explained in a recent TED talk,
the VR scenario may also force people to confront strong emotions like
panic when events occur that they feel powerless to stop. (Even though,
physically, you could just take your headset off.)

*Testing the technology*

The Stanford researchers are looking for a diverse pool of around 1,000
people to test /Empathy at Scale/ before the end of this year. So
they’ve set up a mobile testing unit at places like the Tech Museum
<http://www.thetech.org/> in San Jose.

Jhansi Raju, an ophthalmologist from Chicago, tried out the technology
while visiting the Tech Museum with her family recently. She found the
/Hotel 22/ sequence most affecting. “It showed the human side of
homelessness,” Raju says. “Everyone’s story was so different.”

Raju was especially moved by the story of Ray and his son Ethan. “For
me, having a child and imagining how you could live on a bus with a kid,
that was very moving and very sad to see,” Rajus says.

The study tests the level of empathy a user feels after experiencing the
VR narratives by asking various questions after he or she goes through
the various scenes. It also offers her the option to donate the $10 gift
card she got for participating in the study to a local charity.  Raju
agrees to donate. “I feel like I’m a pretty aware person, in terms of
social issues like that,” Raju says. “But going through this process
really makes you experience the feelings and the emotions of it.”

Explore: Digital Arts <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/digitalarts/>,
News <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/news/>, audio
<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/tag/audio/>, feature
<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/tag/feature/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/27/stanfords-virtual-reality-lab-cultivates-empathy-for-the-homeless/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/27/stanfords-virtual-reality-lab-cultivates-empathy-for-the-homeless/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * 5Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)5
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/27/stanfords-virtual-reality-lab-cultivates-empathy-for-the-homeless/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/27/stanfords-virtual-reality-lab-cultivates-empathy-for-the-homeless/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/27/stanfords-virtual-reality-lab-cultivates-empathy-for-the-homeless/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

0 Comments
<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/27/stanfords-virtual-reality-lab-cultivates-empathy-for-the-homeless/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related Posts from KQED Arts

Does Literature Make You Empathic?

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2014/10/09/does-literature-make-you-empathic/>

Three Highlights from the 2014 Game Developers Conference

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2014/03/25/three-highlights-from-the-2014-game-developers-conference/>

New York Times Venture into VR Leaves Room for Improvement

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2015/11/13/new-york-times-venture-into-vr-leaves-room-for-improvement/>

Fighting the Empathy Deficit: How the Arts Can Make Us More Compassionate

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2015/09/03/fighting-the-empathy-deficit-how-the-arts-can-make-us-more-compassionate/>

Dance Companies Pull Audience Members On Stage To Engage

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/03/31/dance-companies-pull-audience-members-on-stage-to-engage/>

Why Art-Making is Essential to the Tenderloin’s Homeless Population

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/why-art-making-is-essential-to-the-tenderloins-homeless-population/>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


    Author


      Rachael Myrow

Rachael Myrow is KQED's South Bay arts reporter, covering arts and
culture in San Mateo, Santa Clara and Santa Cruz Counties. She
also guest hosts for/  The California Report/ and /Forum,/ files stories
for NPR and hosts a podcast called /Love in the Digital Age./

Her passion for public radio was born as an undergrad at the University
of California at Berkeley, writing movie reviews for KALX-FM. After
finishing one degree in English, she got another in journalism, landed a
job at /Marketplace/ in Los Angeles, and another at KPCC, before
returning to the Bay Area to work at KQED.

She spent more than seven years hosting /The California Report,/ and
over the past 20 years has won a Peabody and three Edward R. Murrow
Awards (one for covering the MTA Strike, her first assignment as a
full-time reporter in 2000*) * as well as numerous other honors
including from the Society of Professional Journalists, the Radio
Television News Directors Association and the LA Press Club. *
Follow @rachaelmyrow
*

View all posts by this author
<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/author/rachael-myrow/>


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>


  Post navigation

Prev Lucas Museum Will Have Different Design if Brought to Treasure Island

<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/27/lucas-museum-will-have-different-design-if-brought-to-treasure-island/>
Next "Happy Birthday" Song Has Been Set Free

<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/27/happy-birthday-song-has-been-set-free/>



  About KQED Arts

KQED Arts provides daily arts news, reviews and profiles for the San
Francisco Bay Area.

  * Contributors <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/contributors/>
  * Contact Us <mailto:arts@kqed.org>


  About KQED

  * About <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/>

Funding for KQED Arts is provided by The William and Flora Hewlett
Foundation <http://www.hewlett.org/>.

The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation <http://www.hewlett.org/>

Support is also provided by the Kenneth Rainin Foundation and the
members of KQED.

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

[blank image]
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil


  When you need an art fix!

Close

:)
