
  Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund <https://seasonofsharing.org/>

Toggle navigation

  * Home

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/>
  * Stories

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/>
  * About the Fund

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/about-the-fund/>
  * For Those in Need

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/for-those-in-need/>
  * Contact Us

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/contact-us/>
  * Donate Now

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/donate-now/>

100% OF YOUR DONATION HELPS THOSE IN NEED
Donate

<https://seasonofsharing.org/donate-now/>

Each year, the _San Francisco Chronicle|SFGate.com_
<http://www.sfgate.com/> shares the stories of Bay Area families in need.
These are their stories.

williams
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/gift-of-a-studio-for-engineer-left-homeless-after-2-accidents/>



      12/04/16: Gift of a studio for engineer left homeless after 2
      accidents
      <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/gift-of-a-studio-for-engineer-left-homeless-after-2-accidents/>


Larry Williams sat on a thick folded blanket on the floor of his studio
apartment, back to the wall, an ancient-looking laptop perched on his
thighs. It was the first time he’d turned on his laptop in years — it
took two days just to … More
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/gift-of-a-studio-for-engineer-left-homeless-after-2-accidents/>

pequeno
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/a-year-after-getting-help-napa-family-counting-its-blessings/>



      11/30/16: A year after getting help, Napa family counting its
      blessings
      <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/a-year-after-getting-help-napa-family-counting-its-blessings/>


Watching 3-year-old Xavier Pequeño race around the house in a pair of
Minions socks, one would never guess that he spent last Christmas in
hospital isolation following a bone marrow transplant made necessary by
a rare and deadly immunodeficiency condition. “I’m so fast!” he yelled …
More
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/a-year-after-getting-help-napa-family-counting-its-blessings/>

rankins
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/when-bad-breaks-pile-up-paying-the-rent-can-be-impossible/>



      11/27/16: When bad breaks pile up, paying the rent can be
      impossible
      <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/when-bad-breaks-pile-up-paying-the-rent-can-be-impossible/>


The first of the month has a way of coming around faster than any other
day on the calendar, especially when it’s the day you’re supposed to
slip a check beneath the landlord’s door. And when you have missed a few
firsts of a few … More
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/when-bad-breaks-pile-up-paying-the-rent-can-be-impossible/>

johnson2
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/with-helping-hand-bay-area-family-puts-rv-life-in-rear-view/>



      11/24/16: With helping hand, Bay Area family puts RV life in
      rear-view
      <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/with-helping-hand-bay-area-family-puts-rv-life-in-rear-view/>


After nine months living in an RV that had to be moved every three
nights, Andrea Johnson thought she’d lost her two children behind one of
the many doors in their new two-bedroom apartment. Johnson was doing
dishes when the place went silent so she … More
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/with-helping-hand-bay-area-family-puts-rv-life-in-rear-view/>

Audrey Cooper KTVU Interview about Season of Sharing Fund
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/ktvu-season-of-sharing-fund-marks-30-years-helping-bay-area-needy/>



      11/21/16: KTVU – Season of Sharing Fund marks 30 years helping Bay
      Area needy
      <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/ktvu-season-of-sharing-fund-marks-30-years-helping-bay-area-needy/>


  SAN FRANCISCO (KTVU) – The San Francisco Chronicle’s Season of Sharing
Fund this year is marking 30 years of serving as a safety net for tens
of thousands of needy Bay Area residents, many of whom are faced with
unexpected crises. An accident, a layoff … More
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/ktvu-season-of-sharing-fund-marks-30-years-helping-bay-area-needy/>

Pequeno
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/the-chronicle-season-of-sharing-fund-30-years-of-giving/>



      10/03/16: The Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund: 30 Years of Giving
      <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/the-chronicle-season-of-sharing-fund-30-years-of-giving/>


The groundbreaking charitable Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund
celebrates its 30th anniversary this year. The Fund, founded jointly in
1986 by the San Francisco Chronicle and the Evelyn and Walter Haas, Jr.
Fund, raised $700,000 that first year for housing assistance, critical
family needs and food … More
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/the-chronicle-season-of-sharing-fund-30-years-of-giving/>

elvira
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/chronicle-season-of-sharing-fund-30-years-of-helping-families/>



      09/09/16: Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund: 30 Years of Helping
      Families
      <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/chronicle-season-of-sharing-fund-30-years-of-helping-families/>


Home. For many, it’s a simple concept: a place of one’s own in which to
house one’s family and store one’s belongings. Home also provides
cherished privacy from the outside world, an opportunity to exercise
one’s own decisions and experience one’s own preferences. Life without …
More
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/chronicle-season-of-sharing-fund-30-years-of-helping-families/>

SFGATE Homeless Project
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/sf-homeless-project-a-letter-to-the-city/>



      06/28/16: SF Homeless Project: A Letter to the City
      <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/sf-homeless-project-a-letter-to-the-city/>


This week, the San Francisco Chronicle is spearheading a major media
campaign called SF Homeless Project, which will take a comprehensive
look at homelessness in San Francisco. The Chronicle will be joined by
more than 70 Bay Area news media organizations who will focus their …
More
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/sf-homeless-project-a-letter-to-the-city/>

2016_sosfund_mark-2COLOR
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/chronicle-season-of-sharing-fund-takes-in-record-8-million/>



      03/13/16: Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund takes in record $8
      million
      <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/chronicle-season-of-sharing-fund-takes-in-record-8-million/>


A record amount of donations poured into The San Francisco Chronicle’s
Season of Sharing Fund, with the millions of dollars helping 4,500
families as well as food banks across the nine Bay Area counties. “We
are very grateful to our more than 5,400 donors who … More
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/chronicle-season-of-sharing-fund-takes-in-record-8-million/>

Fabec
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/s-f-marin-food-bank-makes-difference-with-season-of-sharing-aid/>



      01/01/16: S.F. Marin Food Bank makes difference with Season of
      Sharing aid
      <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/s-f-marin-food-bank-makes-difference-with-season-of-sharing-aid/>


Not long after Karen Fabec came from Pennsylvania to California in the
1970s, she married and moved to Willits in Mendocino County, where she
and her husband lived off the land and grew their own organic produce.
Four decades, two marriages, two children and a … More
<https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/s-f-marin-food-bank-makes-difference-with-season-of-sharing-aid/>

  * 1
  * 2

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/page/2/>
  * 3

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/page/3/>
  * …
  * 5

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/page/5/>
  * »

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/page/2/>

Friend me on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/seasonofsharing?fref=ts>
Follow me on Twitter <https://twitter.com/SoSFund> Watch me on YouTube
<http://www.youtube.com/user/seasonofsharing>


  2016-2017
  CAMPAIGN FUND TOTAL


  $4,778,392


  SOS FUND STORIES

  * Videos

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/videos/>
  * 2015 San Francisco Chronicle Stories | SFGate.com Stories

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/2015/>
  * 2014 San Francisco Chronicle Stories | SFGate.com Stories

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/2014/>
  * 2013 San Francisco Chronicle Stories | SFGate.com Stories

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/stories/2013/>
  * 2012 San Francisco Chronicle Stories | SFGate.com Stories

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/2012-san-francisco-chronicle-stories-sfgate-com-stories/>
  * 2011 San Francisco Chronicle Stories | SFGate.com Stories

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/2011-san-francisco-chronicle-stories-sfgate-com-stories/>
  * 2010 San Francisco Chronicle Stories | SFGate.com Stories

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/2010-san-francisco-chronicle-stories-sfgate-com-stories/>
  * 2009 San Francisco Chronicle Stories | SFGate.com Stories

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/2009-san-francisco-chronicle-stories-sfgate-com-stories/>
  * 2008 San Francisco Chronicle Stories | SFGate.com Stories

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/2008-san-francisco-chronicle-stories-sfgate-com-stories/>
  * 2007 San Francisco Chronicle Stories | SFGate.com Stories

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/2007-san-francisco-chronicle-stories-sfgate-com-stories/>
  * 2006 San Francisco Chronicle Stories | SFGate.com Stories

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/2006-san-francisco-chronicle-stories-sfgate-com-stories/>
  * 2005 San Francisco Chronicle Stories | SFGate.com Stories

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/2005-san-francisco-chronicle-stories-sfgate-com-stories/>
  * 2004 San Francisco Chronicle Stories | SFGate.com Stories

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/2004-san-francisco-chronicle-stories-sfgate-com-stories/>
  * 2003 San Francisco Chronicle Stories | SFGate.com Stories

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/2003-san-francisco-chronicle-stories-sfgate-com-stories/>
  * 2002 San Francisco Chronicle Stories | SFGate.com Stories

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/2002-san-francisco-chronicle-stories-sfgate-com-stories/>
  * 2001 San Francisco Chronicle Stories | SFGate.com Stories

    <https://seasonofsharing.org/2001-san-francisco-chronicle-stories-sfgate-com-stories/>


  HOW IT WORKS

The Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund provides temporary assistance to
help people living in Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, Napa, San Francisco,
San Mateo, Santa Clara, Solano and Sonoma counties.

Over the last 30 years, the Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund has raised
more than $113 million to help individuals and families in need.

In 2015-2016 our fundraising campaign raised a record $8 million for
housing assistance, critical family needs and food banks.

*Learn More...* <https://seasonofsharing.org/about-the-fund/how-we-help/>


  SEARCH OUR SITE

Search for

Search

Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund • PO Box 44740 • San Francisco, CA •
94144 • 415-777-7120 • Email Us
<mailto:JKirschenbaum@sfchronicle.com?subject=Inquiry%20from%20Website>
Website by Spoke <http://www.spokeconsulting.com/> © 2009-2016 Chronicle
Season of Sharing Fund
Terms of Use <https://seasonofsharing.org/terms-of-use/>• Privacy Policy
<https://seasonofsharing.org/privacy-policy/>

