<#>

      o Home <http://www.sfexaminer.com/>
      o Breaking News <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/breaking-news/>
      o The City <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/>
          + Bay Area
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/bay-area/>
          + City Planning
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/city-planning/>
          + Crime
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/crime/>
          + Education
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/education/>
          + News Columnists
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/sf-news-columns/>
          + Peninsula
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/peninsula/>
          + Politics
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/politics/>
          + Transit
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/transit/>
      o Election
        <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/election/>
      o Photo Galleries
        <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/photo-galleries/>
      o Sports <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/>
          + MLB
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-stories/mlb/>
          + NBA
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-stories/nba/>
          + NFL
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-stories/nfl/>
          + NHL
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-stories/nhl/>
          + Other
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-stories/other-sports/>
          + Sports Columnists
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-columnists/>
      o Arts <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/>
          + Movies and TV
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/movies-and-tv/>
          + Performing Arts
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/performing-arts/>
          + Visual Arts
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/visual-arts/>
      o Features <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/>
          + Food & Dining
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/food-and-dining/>
          + Gossip <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/gossip/>
          + Health <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/health/>
          + Law <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/law/>
          + Other <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/other/>
      o Nation & World <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/nation-world/>
          + California News
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/nation-world/california-news/>
          + US News
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/nation-world/us-news/>
          + World News
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/nation-world/world-news/>
      o Opinion <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/opinion/>
          + Editorials
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/opinion/editorials/>
          + Letters
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/opinion/letters-to-the-editor/>
          + Op-Ed <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/opinion/op-ed/>
      o Real Estate <http://www.sfexaminer.com/san-francisco-real-estate/>
          + San Francisco
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/real-estate/san-francisco/>
          + Peninsula
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/real-estate/peninsula-real-estate/>
      o Contact Us <http://www.sfexaminer.com/contact-us/>
      o Customer Service
        <http://www.sfexaminer.com/circulation-customer-service/>
      o Archives <http://www.sfexaminer.com/archive/>

<javascript:void(0)>
<http://afterdarksf.com/?src=examiner>
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/index.php>

  * Sign up for our e-edition
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/sign-up-for-our-newsletter/>
  * |
  * <https://www.facebook.com/sfexaminer>
  * <https://twitter.com/sfexaminer>

<https://www.sterlingbank.com/personal-online-banking.html>

<http://www.sfexaminer.com/index.php> Sunday December 04, 2016
 
The City <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/> > News
Columnists
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/sf-news-columns/> > In
Brown Type
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/sf-news-columns/in-brown-type/>
> The City <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/> > San
Francisco News
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/> > SF
Homeless Project
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/sf-homeless-project/>


  Struggles shared by undocumented immigrants, homeless


      Trending Articles

  * Stopping San Francisco’s biggest land grab
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/stopping-san-franciscos-biggest-land-grab/>
  * 37,000 San Franciscans voted for Trump, mostly in The City’s
    southwest
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/37000-san-franciscans-voted-trump-mostly-citys-southwest/>

  * Neighbors split on protected bike lanes in SF’s Panhandle
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/neighbors-split-protected-bike-lanes-sfs-panhandle/>

  * Investigation continues, community grieves following Oakland fire
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/investigation-continues-community-grieves-following-oakland-fire/>

  * Steve Kerr makes a lot of sense when explaining why he used
    marijuana
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/steve-kerr-makes-lot-sense-comments-using-marijuana/>



    San Francisco Yellow Pages

Apartments
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/apartments.zq.html>
Attorneys
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/attorneys.zq.html>
Auto Dealers
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/auto+dealers.zq.html>
Auto Parts
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/auto+parts.zq.html>
Auto Repair
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/auto+repair.zq.html>
Beauty Salons
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/beauty+salons.zq.html>
Car Rental
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/search.pg?q=car%20rental&z=san+francisco>
Dentists <http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/dentists.zq.html>
Doctors <http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/doctors.zq.html>
Flowers <http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/flowers.zq.html>
Hotels <http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/hotels.zq.html>
Insurance
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/insurance.zq.html>
Loans <http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/loans.zq.html>
Mortgages
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/mortgages.zq.html>
Movers
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/search.pg?q=movers&z=san+francisco>
Pizza <http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/pizza.zq.html>
Realtors <http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/realtors.zq.html>
Restaurants
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/restaurants.zq.html>
Storage <http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/storage.zq.html>
Tax Preparation
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/search.pg?q=tax%20preparation&z=san+francisco>
Travel <http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/travel.zq.html>
More... <http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco.z.html>
Being an undocumented immigrant and being homeless are about being in
crisis mode, being displaced and being alienated by society — and both
situations are driven by poverty. (Jessica Christian/S.F. Examiner)
Being an undocumented immigrant and being homeless are about being in
crisis mode, being displaced and being alienated by society — and both
situations are driven by poverty. (Jessica Christian/S.F. Examiner)
By Jaya Padmanabhan <http://www.sfexaminer.com/author/jaya-padmanabhan/>
on June 29, 2016 1:00 am
Facebook
<http://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2F%3Fp%3D147397&t=Struggles%20shared%20by%20undocumented%20immigrants%2C%20homeless&s=100&p[url]=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2F%3Fp%3D147397&p[images][0]=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2Fwp-content%2Fuploads%2F2016%2F06%2Fsf.InBrownType.0629.jpg&p[title]=Struggles%20shared%20by%20undocumented%20immigrants%2C%20homeless>twitter
<http://twitter.com/share?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2F%3Fp%3D147397&text=Struggles%20shared%20by%20undocumented%20immigrants%2C%20homeless>google_plus
<https://plus.google.com/share?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2F%3Fp%3D147397>mail
<mailto:?subject=Struggles%20shared%20by%20undocumented%20immigrants%2C%20homeless&body=Hey%20check%20this%20out:%20http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2F%3Fp%3D147397>Facebook
<http://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2F%3Fp%3D147397&t=Struggles%20shared%20by%20undocumented%20immigrants%2C%20homeless&s=100&p[url]=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2F%3Fp%3D147397&p[images][0]=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2Fwp-content%2Fuploads%2F2016%2F06%2Fsf.InBrownType.0629.jpg&p[title]=Struggles%20shared%20by%20undocumented%20immigrants%2C%20homeless>twitter
<http://twitter.com/share?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2F%3Fp%3D147397&text=Struggles%20shared%20by%20undocumented%20immigrants%2C%20homeless>google_plus
<https://plus.google.com/share?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2F%3Fp%3D147397>mail
<mailto:?subject=Struggles%20shared%20by%20undocumented%20immigrants%2C%20homeless&body=Hey%20check%20this%20out:%20http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2F%3Fp%3D147397>

On a single night in January 2015, the U.S. Department of Housing and
Development estimated in its 2015 Annual Homeless Assessment Report
there were 564,708 homeless people in the country. Out of that
staggering number, 115,738 were in California, and 6,775 in San Francisco.

San Francisco harbors the seventh largest homeless population among
major cities in the United States, with New York and Los Angeles heading
that list. So what does being homeless really mean?

Ads by ZINC
3

*RELATED: COMPLETE SF EXAMINER HOMELESS COVERAGE
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/will-sf-see-writing-walls/>
*

Teresa Gowen, in her seminal book, “Hobos, Hustlers and Backsliders:
Homeless in San Francisco,” presents three different prisms to being
homeless. In one, Charlie Mack, a homeless African American in his 40s,
describes his situation as “a case of innocent people down on their luck
being pushed around by merchants and cops.”

Li’l Lee, a white dealer and hustler, discredits the term “homeless.” He
advances the idea that it applies to those who are “unable to keep
theyselves together” and blames his state on “willful hedonism” or the
orientation toward immediate sinful gratification.

↓ *Continue Reading Below*

[advertisement]
[advertisement]

Then there’s Timothy, a recovering addict who provides the third
perspective. “Ain’t no homelessness problem, in my opinion. The problem
is addiction, period.” Gowen respectively calls these three perspectives
“system-talk,” “sin-talk” and “sick-talk.”

A little before noon, as I was passing through Golden Gate Avenue on a
Friday in the Tenderloin district, the line for the free midday meal at
Saint Anthony Foundation snaked around the block. I could see a few
elderly, a few women and a handful of brown faces. Most were caucasian
and African-American men.

This eyeball estimate was borne out by AHAR: About 17 percent of all
homeless people are Hispanic or Latino. “Most homeless individuals are
either white (54 percent) [Hispanic and Latino percentages are possibly
bundled into the number for whites] or African American (36 percent)”
and a very small few (1.2 percent) are Asian.

There seems to me to be much similarity between being an undocumented
immigrant and being homeless. It’s about being in crisis mode, being
displaced and being alienated by society. And both situations are driven
by poverty.

At the Hamilton Family Center shelter, resident Maritsa Tupul, a
slight-framed young woman with a smooth round face and clear eyes, is a
27-year-old undocumented immigrant. Originally from Guatemala, she made
the trek to the United States along with her sister when she was 13 and
her sister was 16. Her parents lived in the U.S. at the time. Tupul went
to middle school and high school in San Francisco and had dreams of
enrolling in City College. But when her father decided to leave her
mother one day, their household’s one paycheck disappeared along with him.

Soon after Tupul finished high school, she fell in love with a man and
moved in with him. They had three children in quick succession. And
then, one day, he moved out. Tupul was a mother with three children when
she found herself without a roof. “Look, I lost my tooth last night,”
six year old Douglas announced, grinning happily as he pointed to the
gap in his gums. Douglas is Tupul’s oldest child. He seemed like a
happy, well-adjusted youngster as he proceeded to tell me about his
siblings — the “babies” in his family — with a great deal of pride.
“Leslie is 4 years old,” he said, holding up four fingers, and “Adonis
is two,” Douglas added bouncing from one foot to the other.

Tupul’s prospects for finding a job are remarkably dim, yet she has a
ready smile on her face and optimism in her bearing that probably
transfers to her children. The one job she had taken up, while she and
her man had been together, had been at a hotel in San Francisco where
she did housekeeping. She was paid $9 an hour, but Tupul found the
situation unbearable. She was expected to work 72 hours a week, and
various expenses like “taxes” and “medical” were frequently deducted
from her salary, when she received neither benefit nor privilege from
either.

Tupul believes that it was a series of mistaken choices that she made in
her youth that led to her homeless situation today. And she is eager to
get out of the hold it has on her life.

And that’s one more aspect to homelessness: neither victimhood, nor a
predilection for sinful pleasures, nor sickness of any sort, but merely
a series of unfortunate circumstances.

“Have you considered returning back to Guatemala?” I asked Tupul. She
shook her head. “The situation here is complicated. I would probably
have a home and food to eat, even if it was just rice and beans, in
Guatemala. But I’m a mother now and I have to think about my children
and I believe they would be happier here,” she replied in Spanish.

“We believe that the longer a family experiences homelessness the larger
the trauma,” Rachel Kenemore, senior development associate at the
Hamilton Family Center, said, “so the primary objective is to ‘rehouse’
our families.”

The word “primary” threw me a bit in Kenemore’s statement. Indeed,
families need to be rehoused. There’s no question about that. However,
shouldn’t there be a regular paycheck coming in, primarily?

I pursued the issue with Tupul’s caseworker, Tami Gaines. “My primary
goal is to assist with housing and stability in Tupul’s family life, as
well as building confidence,” Gaines said, echoing what Kenemore had
stated. She went on to add that she encourages her clients to come in
for regular case management sessions and to search for long-term housing
options. “Maritsa is interested in doing a course in cosmetology,”
Gaines said, “and I look for ways to help her meet her life goals.”

Tupul clarified she cannot work full time hours anymore, as a mother of
young children, so she walks into restaurants that advertise for help
hoping to find something for four hours per day. She’s been doing this
for 10 months now, with no luck.

So how would Maritsa pay for the cosmetology course? How would she
maintain a house without income, even with the housing subsidies that
Gaines mentioned? How would she be able to continue to support her
four-member family, especially as an undocumented immigrant and without
a job? These questions had no immediate answers.

Maritsa Tupul’s is not the face of homelessness,” Kenemore remarked.
Families who are looking to find solutions, somehow find a way. “They
don’t wait for someone to do something for them,” Gaines added. “Over 86
percent of families who go through our programs exit into stable
housing,” Kenemore explained as proof of the success of the Hamilton
program.

Homelessness is about affordability and the ability to sustain
affordability. It’s a state of financial crisis that could quickly
become insurmountable if there was no way to get on one’s feet with a
steady income. Finding housing is a step in the right direction, but
perhaps not a long-term solution without the means to afford the housing.

I worry about young mothers with young children, whose lives are further
complicated by their undocumented labels. On Maritsa Tupul’s face,
though, there is a heartening resilience, which inspires confidence.
Perhaps it’s about breaking down larger, complex problems into
manageable ones. And about processing one experience at a time — good or
bad. And today, it’s about Douglas’ lost tooth.

/Jaya Padmanabhan is the editor of India Currents, www.indiacurrents.com
<http://www.indiacurrents.com/>. She can be reached
at jaya.padmanabhan@gmail.com <mailto:jaya.padmanabhan@gmail.com>. In
Brown Type covers immigrant issues in San Francisco./



    Click here <#disqus_comments> or scroll down to comment

Our Content Recommended For You
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/turning-san-francisco-district-13/>
Turning San Francisco into District 13
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/turning-san-francisco-district-13/>
Nov 25, 2016
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/goons-come-rain/>
The goons come out in the rain <http://www.sfexaminer.com/goons-come-rain/>
Nov 23, 2016
<http://www.sfweekly.com/news/snitch/mayor-butt-makes-ass-city-richmond/>
Mayor Butt Makes an Ass of the City of Richmond
<http://www.sfweekly.com/news/snitch/mayor-butt-makes-ass-city-richmond/>
Dec 2, 2016
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/sf-schools-flourish-proposition-funding/>
SF schools to flourish with Proposition A funding
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/sf-schools-flourish-proposition-funding/>
Nov 21, 2016
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/hacked-appears-muni-stations-fare-payment-system-crashes/>
‘You Hacked’ appears at Muni stations as fare payment system crashes
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/hacked-appears-muni-stations-fare-payment-system-crashes/>
Nov 28, 2016
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/hilltop-park-bayview-reopening-5-million-renovation/>
Hilltop Park in Bayview reopening after $5 million renovation
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/hilltop-park-bayview-reopening-5-million-renovation/>
Dec 1, 2016


    In Other News


      Trending Articles

  * Stopping San Francisco’s biggest land grab
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/stopping-san-franciscos-biggest-land-grab/>
  * 37,000 San Franciscans voted for Trump, mostly in The City’s
    southwest
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/37000-san-franciscans-voted-trump-mostly-citys-southwest/>

  * Neighbors split on protected bike lanes in SF’s Panhandle
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/neighbors-split-protected-bike-lanes-sfs-panhandle/>

  * Investigation continues, community grieves following Oakland fire
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/investigation-continues-community-grieves-following-oakland-fire/>

  * Steve Kerr makes a lot of sense when explaining why he used
    marijuana
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/steve-kerr-makes-lot-sense-comments-using-marijuana/>


  * Breaking News <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/breaking-news/>

  * The City <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/>
  * Crime
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/crime/>
  * Politics
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/politics/>
  * Education
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/education/>
  * City Planning
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/city-planning/>
  * Transit
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/transit/>
  * Columnists
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/sf-news-columns/>

  * Sports <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/>
  * NFL <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-stories/nfl/>
  * NBA <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-stories/nba/>
  * MLB <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-stories/mlb/>
  * NHL <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-stories/nhl/>
  * Columnists
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-columnists/>
  * Other
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-stories/other-sports/>

  * Photo Galleries <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/photo-galleries/>

  * Opinion <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/opinion/>
  * Letters
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/opinion/letters-to-the-editor/>
  * Op-eds <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/opinion/op-ed/>
  * Editorials <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/opinion/editorials/>

  * Features <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/>
  * Food <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/food-and-dining/>
  * Health <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/health/>
  * Law <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/law/>
  * Other <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/other/>

  * Arts <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/>
  * Calendar <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/calendar/>
  * Comedy <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/comedy/>
  * Community <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/community/>
  * Dance <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/Dance/>
  * Literature <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/Literature/>
  * Movies and TV <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/movies-and-tv/>
  * Music <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/music/>
  * Performing Arts
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/performing-arts/>
  * Theater <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/Theater/>
  * Visual Arts <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/visual-arts/>

  * Nation and World <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/nation-world/>
  * California News
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/nation-world/california-news/>
  * US News <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/nation-world/us-news/>
  * World News <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/nation-world/world-news/>

  * Sponsored <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sponsored/>
  * Readers’ Choice 2016
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/events/2016/ReadersChoice/>

  * Connect
  * Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/sfexaminer>
  * Twitter <https://twitter.com/sfexaminer>

  * Contact
  * Contact us <http://www.sfexaminer.com/contact-us/>
  * Employment <http://www.sfexaminer.com/sf-examiner-jobs/>
  * Subscription <http://www.sfexaminer.com/circulation-customer-service/>
  * E-Edition Signup <http://www.sfexaminer.com/sign-up-for-our-newsletter/>

  * Real Estate <http://www.sfexaminer.com/san-francisco-real-estate/>

©2016 The San Francisco Examiner
Terms of Use <http://www.sfexaminer.com/terms-of-use/> | Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/privacy-policy/>

