
Issue:  Vol. 46 / No. 47 / 24 November 2016
 

  * About

    <http://www.ebar.com/about/>
      o About the B.A.R.

        <http://www.ebar.com/about/>
      o Advertising

        <http://www.ebar.com/advertising>
  * News

    <http://www.ebar.com/news/>
  * Opinion

    <http://www.ebar.com/columns/>
  * Arts

    <http://www.ebar.com/arts/>
  * Obituaries

    <http://www.ebar.com/obituaries>
  * BARtab

    <http://www.ebar.com/bartab>
  * Search

    <http://www.ebar.com/archives/>
  * Classifieds

    <http://www.ebar.com/classifieds/>

Latest Blogs

<http://ebar.com/blogs>
Three violent robberies reported in Castro

<http://ebar.com/blogs/three-violent-robberies-reported-in-castro/>
by Seth Hemmelgarn
-
Nov 23, 2016
San Francisco police are investigating three violent robberies that have
taken place in the Castro district in recent days. In ...
Three violent robberies reported in Castro
<http://ebar.com/blogs/three-violent-robberies-reported-in-castro/>
Anti-Trump SF artist jailed for ‘racist’ graffiti explains acts
<http://ebar.com/blogs/anti-trump-sf-artist-jailed-for-racist-graffiti-explains-acts/>
Gay Berkeley councilman concedes race
<http://ebar.com/blogs/gay-berkeley-councilman-concedes-race/>
Finn Town eatery announces Castro opening
<http://ebar.com/blogs/finn-town-eatery-announces-castro-opening/>
powered by


  Homeless issues at Castro library addressed


NEWS

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Published 06/30/2016


      by Seth Hemmelgarn

s.hemmelgarn@ebar.com <mailto:s.hemmelgarn@ebar.com>

A worker from San Francisco Public Works does an early morning cleaning
Sunday of the exterior grounds of the Eureka Valley/Harvey Milk Memorial
Branch Library. Photo: Rick Gerharter
	Print this Page
<http://www.ebar.com/common/inc/article_print.php?sec=news&article=71682>
	Send to a Friend
<http://www.ebar.com/common/inc/staf.php?sec=news&article=71682>
	Share on Facebook <http://www.facebook.com/share.php?u=%3Curl%3E>
	Share on Twitter
<http://twitter.com/home?status=Currently%20reading...%20Homeless%20issues%20at%20Castro%20library%20addressed%20-%20http://www.ebar.com/news/article.php?sec=news%26article=71682>

	
Share on MySpace! <#>

ADVERTISMENT

San Francisco officials and others are working to address homeless
encampments and other issues that have persisted for years around the
Castro district's Eureka Valley/Harvey Milk Memorial Branch Library.

Gay Supervisor Scott Wiener, whose District 8 includes the Castro, said
problems in the area around the library, which is at 1 Jose Sarria
Court, include auto break-ins, drug use, "a highly unsanitary
encampment" at the library and an "open air bike chop shop," where
stolen bicycles are taken apart so their parts can be sold.

Wiener, who's been criticized for his efforts to get tent encampments
off the city's sidewalks, said, "It's ridiculous. We just cannot allow
that kind of situation to continue."

"It's neither progressive, nor humane, nor safe, nor healthy to allow
people to live and ultimately, to deteriorate and die in these tent
encampments," Wiener said. "We need to get people help." The solution,
he said, is "to get people off the streets and into shelter," and into
housing that addresses substance abuse and mental health issues.

"It's a fallacy that there's no place for people to go," he said.

Wiener said among other things, "I've been working with police to be
more consistent and proactive there, which they have been."

He's also "requested that the Department of Public Works make this the
first stop of the morning for the cleaning crew." Homeless outreach
workers are also coming out to the site, he said.

"I think it is better than it was before, but it is still not perfect,"
Wiener said.

He added, "If the library brings in security, if we continue to have
consistency by the Department of Public Works and by the police, and if
the library makes the physical changes" needed to dissuade homeless
people, "I'm not saying the problem is going to go away entirely, but
the situation will get better."

Michelle Jeffers, a San Francisco Public Library spokeswoman, said the
library's now sending health and safety associates, many of whom are
formerly homeless, to the Eureka Valley branch. The associates help
guide people to where they can get services.

Jeffers said there have been concerns about people using the area
outside "in less than desirable ways when the library's closed."

Those have included people climbing onto the building's roof and
sleeping there, probably because it seemed safer than sleeping on the
street, Jeffers said. The library worried about liability, though, and
access to the roof has been closed off.

Jeffers said, "We're working on the lighting out there. Because of the
way that block is, it felt very dark and felt very not safe to neighbors."

There's also a syringe disposal container at the site.

Additionally, off-duty police are patrolling the neighborhood and are
including the library after hours in their watch.

"I hesitate to say that we have a solution, but we certainly don't want
to change the way we provide library services," Jeffers said.

"We feel we are a welcoming environment for everybody, regardless of
their socioeconomic status, and whether they're experiencing
homelessness," she said.

Jeffers worked to make it clear how seriously she and others take the issue.

"We feel really passionate about making sure that people have dignity
and that they have access to services that can change their lives, which
libraries can do for people," she said, weeping as she spoke.

"I get really emotional" about the issue, she said.

When asked about what needs to be done to solve homelessness, Crispin
Hollings, a gay man who's board president of the Castro/Eureka Valley
Neighborhood Association, said, "We need to get a lot more serious about
constructing housing."

"The city really is not doing very much to build more housing," Hollings
said. "... Every time we come up with a way to increase density in the
city, there's a lot of pushback on that."

Kimberly Reeves, 20, who said she's been homeless for 10 years and has
been on her own after parting with her abusive mother, was sitting at
the library recently with several other people. She didn't talk about
more housing.

She said she first came to the spot at the library about a month and a
half ago and returns to it because people know they can find her there.

"Lately, I've been sleeping here, but the cops have been getting on
people's asses and waking people up at 5 in the morning," Reeves, who
identifies as pansexual, said.

Asked what it would take to end homelessness for her, Reeves said, "I
don't really know," but she's waiting for her chance "to make something
out of my life."

She's a singer, and she said someone recently offered to give her time
in a recording studio.

"I'm hoping that works out," Reeves, who has blue and pinkish-purple
hair, said.

In terms of looking for other work, she said, "It would have to be work
that I don't hate doing and accepts me for how I look. I'm not going to
change how I look to be society's idea of having your life together."

Police Captain Dan Perea, who heads the Mission police station, which
includes the Castro, didn't respond to requests for comment for this story.






Copyright © 2016, Bay Area Reporter, a division of BAR, Inc. All Rights
Reserved.

Home <http://www.ebar.com/index.php>  |   News
<http://www.ebar.com/news/>  |   Open Forum
<http://www.ebar.com/openforum/>  |   Columns
<http://www.ebar.com/columns/>  |   Arts & Entertainment
<http://www.ebar.com/arts/>  |   Arts Columns
<http://www.ebar.com/artscolumns/>  |   BARtab
<http://www.ebar.com/bartab/>  |   Classifieds
<http://www.ebar.com/classifieds/>  |   Obituaries
<http://www.ebar.com/obituaries/>  |   Archives
<http://www.ebar.com/archives/>  |   About the BAR
<http://www.ebar.com/about/>  |   Advertising
<http://www.ebar.com/advertising>


Follow The Bay Area Reporter
facebook logo
<http://www.facebook.com/pages/Bay-Area-Reporter/395391936135>
facebook logo <http://twitter.com/ebarnews>
Newsletter logo <http://ebar.com/newsletter>
Newsletter logo <http://ebar.com/blogs/?feed=rss>
ISSUU logo <http://issuu.com/bayareareporter>
<http://ebar.com/ads/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=2179__zoneid=6__cb=ecdfdca4fc__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.stevenunderhill.com%2F>
<http://ebar.com/ads/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=2475__zoneid=12__cb=d95b4b4835__oadest=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.reaf-sf.org%2Fhelp-is-on-the-way-for-the-holidays-xv.html>
<http://ebar.com/ads/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=1162__zoneid=13__cb=b593e0aa63__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.apothecariumsf.com%2F>


<http://ebar.com/ads/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=1223__zoneid=14__cb=db21f7227b__oadest=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.issuu.com%2Fbayareareporter%2Fdocs%2Fbayareareporter_june_23_2016>


<http://ebar.com/ads/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=2444__zoneid=12__cb=fe69da0a98__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.nctcsf.org%2Fshows%2F2016-17-Season%2FSons-of-the-Prophet>
<http://ebar.com/ads/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=1493__zoneid=9__cb=391a538b4c__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.apothecariumsf.com>


<http://ebar.com/ads/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=1371__zoneid=4__cb=3d92733809__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2FLGBTsf>


<http://ebar.com/ads/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=2478__zoneid=6__cb=389829df8d__oadest=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2Fpages%2FOrphan-Andys-Restaurant%2F111223272233795>
