<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/> Beyond Homelessness

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>
//
<https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fmental-health%2F&text=The%20streets%27%20sickest%2C%20costliest%3A%20the%20mentally%20ill.&hashtags=SFHomelessProject>
// <#>
//
<mailto:?subject=The%20streets%27%20sickest%2C%20costliest%3A%20the%20mentally%20ill&body=SF%20Homeless%20Project%3A%20What%20would%20it%20take%20to%20create%20enough%20mental%20health%20services%20to%20permanently%20meet%20the%20needs%20of%20the%20thousands%20of%20people%20living%20on%20its%20streets%3F%0A%0Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fmental-health%2F>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
Beyond Homelessness <http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>
//
<https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?url=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fmental-health%2F&text=The%20streets%27%20sickest%2C%20costliest%3A%20the%20mentally%20ill.&hashtags=SFHomelessProject>
// <#>
//
<mailto:?subject=The%20streets%27%20sickest%2C%20costliest%3A%20the%20mentally%20ill&body=SF%20Homeless%20Project%3A%20What%20would%20it%20take%20to%20create%20enough%20mental%20health%20services%20to%20permanently%20meet%20the%20needs%20of%20the%20thousands%20of%20people%20living%20on%20its%20streets%3F%0A%0Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fmental-health%2F>


  The streets’ sickest, costliest: the mentally ill

What would it take for San Francisco to create enough mental health
services to permanently meet the needs of its thousands of mentally ill
homeless people?

By Erin Allday

June 29, 2016

April 20, 2015 City outreach worker Jessica Naugle helps dismantle a
tent at an encampment near 16th Street. People at the camp were sent to
a shelter where they could meet with case managers and be connected to
further services.Photo: Brant Ward, The Chronicle

Everyone has seen them. They are the men and women walking barefoot down
Market Street, talking to themselves or yelling obscenities at no one in
particular. Or sitting quietly in dim doorways, rocking back and forth,
or sprawling on nests of dirty blankets in BART corridors.

About this project:

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/homeless/>

The San Francisco Chronicle has joined with more than 70 other news
organizations to focus attention on the seemingly intractable problem of
homelessness in our region.

Read the letter to the city
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/letter-to-the-city/>.

Other stories and multimedia elements of this project can be found at
sfchronicle.com/homeless <http://sfchronicle.com/homeless>.

The sickest people living on San Francisco’s streets are not only the
most noticeable, but the most vulnerable and hardest to reach. Public
health experts believe roughly a third — and maybe many more — of all
homeless people in San Francisco are mentally ill, many of them battling
severe conditions like schizophrenia, post-traumatic stress and bipolar
disorder.

So intertwined are homelessness and mental health that it is impossible
to resolve one without addressing the other. But on this fundamental
issue, San Francisco is struggling at every level, unable to keep the
most needy people from cycling between the street, emergency rooms,
shelters and jail cells, at great expense and often without real progress.

“We have to look at this as a public health crisis,” said Jacob
Kaminker, president of the San Francisco Psychological Association, who
has worked with homeless people throughout the Bay Area. “At some point
we have to ask: Are we going to offer better services to these people?
Or are we going to spend that money on law enforcement and prison and
emergency room bills? Are we just going to leave these people untreated?”

Video: Tim Hussin, The Chronicle

To keep people with mental illness off the streets permanently, many
experts and advocates say, San Francisco needs a fully supported system
of mental health care that’s matched to individuals’ needs and provides
seamless, uninterrupted housing.

Specifically: San Francisco needs dozens, maybe even hundreds of
inpatient psychiatric beds to treat the most severely mentally ill. The
city needs more transitional housing units to give people safe places to
stay in between levels of mental health care, so there’s less risk of
them falling out of the system. And it needs thousands more supportive
housing units to keep open the pipeline of care and give people with
mental illness a permanent home.

Mental health may be San Francisco’s most stubborn obstacle to ending
homelessness. It’s arguably the most challenging and expensive to overcome.

Root of the problem

Ashley Trueva has lived in St. Mary’s Square, a pocket of a park on the
outskirts of Chinatown, for six years. She’s been homeless for nearly
half of her 32 years.

“This is the only safe place in the city,” said Trueva, who calls
herself Shorty. “But if there was housing for me, I’d take it.”

She is a tiny woman, swimming in a white overcoat that, she notes with
pride, is remarkably clean. It’s a gray Thursday morning in June and
she’s been visited by someone with the Homeless Outreach Team, a Public
Health Department group that works with the chronically homeless, trying
to inch them into care and, ideally, housing.

They’ve gotten to know Shorty over several months. She’s talked about
her constant stress, about symptoms of post-traumatic stress and bipolar
disorder, about her addiction to methamphetamine. But for Shorty, and so
many like her, there’s a massive gap between what she says she wants and
what the city is able to provide.

The problem confronting San Francisco is rooted in staggering figures.
It’s generally believed that of all homeless people, a third are
mentally ill. But among the sickest and most chronically homeless the
percentage is much higher. A city database that tracks homeless people
who use medical and psychiatric services shows that in fiscal year
2014-15, more than half — about 5,300 people — had a history of mental
illness.

Mayor Ed Lee told The Chronicle recently that the city needs “several
hundred” more psychiatric beds for people who need the most intensive
care. The city has about 400 such beds that are accessible to homeless
people. Earlier this month, the district attorney’s office proposed the
city create a new behavioral health justice center to alleviate a
shortage of mental health services that is leading to jail time as well
as homelessness.

Public and mental health experts say there’s a need for more beds across
the community health care spectrum — from inpatient psych wards to
supportive housing, where people can live mostly independently with easy
access to services.

What would all of this cost? It’s difficult to estimate. No one can put
a firm number on the shortage of beds and homes.

A hundred additional beds in a hospital psychiatric ward, the most
expensive level of care, could cost $80 million a year, according to the
Department of Public Health. The same number in a locked facility like a
skilled nursing home or other non-hospital treatment center could cost
up to $20 million.

The city also needs thousands more supportive housing units for those
who don’t need institutional care, at a cost of at least $50 million a year.

But there could also be cost savings as a result.

Among the most needy homeless people — the 338 people in the city’s
public health database who use the most emergency services — 80 percent
have a history of serious mental illness. Nearly two-thirds have a
physical and substance abuse problem, too.

This group makes up just 3 percent of the homeless people in the public
health database, but they account for a third of all costs. Treating
them in emergency and urgent care costs $50 million a year, or nearly
$150,000 per person on average.

“If you could just provide care for those people, you’ve freed up
services for the rest,” said John Snook, executive director of Treatment
Advocacy Center, a Washington, D.C., nonprofit that works for people
with severe mental illness. “It’s a matter of getting in front of this
problem.”

Some left behind

Some mental health experts say San Francisco and other cities need to be
more assertive in intervening in the lives of those stuck on the street
due to severe mental illness. Many of them would benefit from
medication, but refuse to take it because of side effects or because
they don’t believe they need it. Others might need to be forced into
hospital care, at least for a time.

Less restrictive mental health programs are ideal — and mandated by
state and federal law — for most people who need help. But “there is a
subset (of mentally ill people) that will fail there,” said Dominic
Sisti, an expert in medical ethics at the Perelman School of Medicine at
the University of Pennsylvania. Last year, Sisti wrote a widely
circulated paper in the Journal of the American Medical Association
arguing for a return to institutional care.

“We’re talking about a specific population of individuals with very
severe mental illness,” Sisti said. “They need structure and safety, at
least for a time.”

April 20, 2015 Homeless Outreach Team member Joanna Gobea helps a woman
with some paperwork as she clears out of an encampment near the corner
of 16th and Shotwell streets in San Francisco.Photo: Brant Ward, The
Chronicle

San Francisco General Hospital sees about 6,100 patients brought in on
psychiatric holds every year, a third of whom are homeless. Roughly 80
percent of people on psychiatric holds are released without being
admitted to the hospital.

Many just need to sober up. Substance-abuse disorders — in particular,
methamphetamine addiction — are common among people with mental illness,
and symptoms of both can be similar. When people are brought to the
emergency room behaving erratically, doctors can’t always tell right
away if they’re high or having a psychotic episode.

Psychiatrists in San Francisco emergency rooms want more beds that will
allow them to admit more people — either voluntarily or by extending
what’s known as a 5150 hold, which under state law allows someone deemed
either gravely disabled or dangerous to themselves or others to be
hospitalized for up to three days.

Many patients would benefit from much longer stays — weeks, or even
months. Psychiatric holds can last up to six weeks, with patients
constantly assessed for release, and most aren’t kept that long. In San
Francisco, about 40 people a year are placed in permanent
conservatorships, meaning they can be held indefinitely.

Abuses feared

Institutional care is extremely controversial, though, freighted by past
abuses and shifting philosophies toward medical care. Reforms that swept
through the mental health field a half-century ago, thanks in part to
advances in medication, ended mass institutionalization and focused on a
new vision of independence and empowerment.

Today, roughly 38,000 people in the United States are in locked mental
institutions, down from a peak of nearly 560,000 in 1955.

It’s unlikely San Francisco will ever return to institutions remotely
similar to what once existed. But a portion of people with severe mental
illness undoubtedly need hospital-level care, either for short- or
long-term stays, mental health advocates say. And there aren’t nearly
enough beds for all who need them.

June 9, 2016 Nurse practitioner Jason Blantz, right, talks to a homeless
camper in San Francisco. The Homeless Outreach Team regularly visits
areas where homeless people frequent to offer a wide variety of
resources, including mental health care.Photo: Tim Hussin, The Chronicle

A 2016 report from the Treatment Advocacy Center suggests that
California needs to nearly double the number of people housed by state
psychiatric hospitals or other locked mental health facilities, which
now largely serve defendants in the criminal justice system.

San Francisco has roughly 400 public psychiatric beds that are available
to homeless people. About 150 of those are in the city, and another 250
are at places like Napa State Hospital or skilled nursing facilities in
nearby counties that contract with San Francisco. Some of these beds are
for brief crisis treatment, others for stays of several months.
Depending on the level of care, each bed costs from $85,000 in a nursing
home to $800,000 a year on what’s basically a psychiatric intensive care
unit.

Ten more beds will be added at San Francisco General’s behavioral health
center soon. The behavioral health justice center proposed by the
district attorney’s office would provide some inpatient beds, but such a
center, if it’s even approved, would be years away from opening. There
are no other firm plans to add significantly to the city’s bed supply.

In fact, San Francisco continues to lose psych beds.

The city has lost 155 psych beds over the past five years, mostly at
skilled nursing facilities. These beds are being sacrificed to the same
booming market that’s making affordable housing such a burden: Owners of
a nursing home with a dozen residents can make a lot more money selling
their house than they can caring for mentally ill patients.

The result of these shortages: Doctors who work in emergency services
say they sometimes have to release mentally ill patients earlier than
would be beneficial for their longer-term recovery.

These people, whose recovery has only just begun, may go back to a
homeless shelter or tent encampment or alley, losing whatever progress
they have made.

“You get to the point where you get somebody stabilized,” Snook said,
“and they’re still going to be in the hospital 10 times that year.”

Transitional care

Efforts to move people from crisis into housing have shown promise. A
New York City program that focuses on the most troubled homeless people,
called Frequent User Service Enhancement or FUSE, targets those most
likely to end up in jail or emergency rooms with intense case management
and access to housing.

In a 2014 report on 72 participants, 86 percent were still in housing
two years after entering into care, compared with 42 percent of people
in a comparison group. The cost: a little over $25,000 per person per year.

That program places people into supportive housing straight from an
emergency room, homeless shelter or the street. It’s known as a “housing
first” model of care — get people off the street, then get them
connected to mental health and other services. Many San Francisco mental
health experts say they’d rather see a staggered approached to housing
and care.

Under such a ladder-type model, people released from the hospital would
move first into residential treatment programs, perhaps focused on
addiction, or group homes where they can learn to navigate a new life —
shopping, taking public transit, maybe getting a job.

As their conditions improve, they may move into supportive housing,
which provides more independence but still offers on-site services.

This ladder approach is effective. It’s used in San Francisco and many
other cities around the country. But it also creates a fractured system
that can lose track of people between levels of care and housing. When
people are ready to move from a 90-day alcohol abuse program to
permanent housing, for example, there may not be a room waiting for
them. And again, they’re at risk of ending up homeless.

Oct. 13, 2015 A homeless man sleeps on the sidewalk as the Homeless
Outreach Team's Pau Liu unsuccessfully tries to persuade another
homeless man to relocate to a shelter.Photo: Scott Strazzante, The Chronicle

That’s where transitional housing can come in. These facilities
typically provide medical and mental health services that fall somewhere
between a hospital and supportive housing. They cost around $109,000 a
year per bed.

They are meant for short stays of a couple weeks to a couple months,
during which time residents work with counselors and other staff to make
sure they’re prepared for more independence — that they can take
medications without supervision, make their doctors’ appointments, and
handle the stress of facing the “real world.”

But there’s a shortage of beds in transitional housing, too.

Losing people along the way

Tracey Helton, now 46, was depressed, addicted to drugs and had been
homeless in San Francisco for six years when she finally decided to seek
help. She started with rehab to kick a heroin habit, and then spent four
years in a sober living facility in the Tenderloin, which was safe and
affordable and helped ease her back into an independent life free of drugs.

That was almost 20 years ago. Similar programs now are difficult to
find, and where they do exist, stays typically max out at 90 days, maybe
six months.

Helton manages a Public Health Department program called Hummingbird
Place that offers peer support to people who are dealing with mental
health problems and are often homeless, or nearly so. She finds, to her
great frustration, that she sometimes has nowhere to send them.

“There’s so much need and so few places to put people,” Helton said.
“The system has really broadened over time to meet people’s multiple
needs. But at the same time, the housing options have really severely
been limited.

“I’ve told clients before, ‘If I were to become homeless today, I don’t
even know where I’d start,’” she said.

At the Progress Foundation, San Francisco’s oldest nonprofit provider of
mental health care to the homeless, staff often fear losing clients when
they’re transitioning from one level of care to another, said Executive
Director Steve Fields.

“When we have clients who move through all our levels of care, we have a
less than 5 percent return to hospital, because they’re stable, more
normalized,” Fields said. If more people were able to stay in the
system, he said, “we’d see less cycling through the hospitals.”

Cycling may be the most heartbreaking dimension of working with people
who are homeless and mentally ill. It’s not unusual for people to travel
up and down the community mental health ladder, getting better along the
way, only to end up with no housing at some point.

Permanent housing at the end of the line

The goal of the so-called continuum of care is to get people into a
permanent home where they feel safe and their mental health is
stabilized. For many people, that home is in supportive housing, where
they live largely independently but have access to on-site resources
like counseling, nurses or case managers.

Supportive housing has dominated mental health and homeless programs in
recent years, and many cities, including San Francisco, have plans to
expand such housing.

But San Francisco could learn something from other cities, said Joshua
Bamberger, an associate clinical professor in family and community
medicine at UCSF, who’s provided mental health care to the homeless for
26 years.

The city, he said, needs to be more creative in finding funding to
develop housing units. In Los Angeles, for example, the Housing for
Health program uses a combination of sources, including federal and
state money, nonprofit agencies and individual philanthropists.

“When they identify someone they think should be housed, they look
across a diverse portfolio. They have a diversity of funds to find a way
to pay for the housing,” Bamberger said. “We have done nothing like that
in San Francisco.”

Ultimately, everything comes back to the housing supply, said Margot
Antonetty, head of the city’s Direct Access to Housing program, which
provides housing surrounded by health care and other services.

Though supportive housing is generally considered permanent, there may
be hundreds of people living in these rooms who don’t need the extra
support anymore — who would do just fine in apartments on their own. If
they could afford it.

A lack of affordable housing in San Francisco creates a logjam in the
community mental health structure. People in supportive housing aren’t
leaving because they have no place to go, which means there isn’t room
for many of the people ready to move up from more intensive recovery
programs.

“With the San Francisco housing situation, even if I gave you a subsidy,
you wouldn’t be able to afford housing. That makes it difficult for
people to leave,” Antonetty said. “And if people stay forever in
permanent supportive housing, then the only way new people come in is by
new units coming online. We need more exits.”

Ken Smigelski was one of the lucky ones.

1978 A photograph of Ken Smigelski and his wife, Laura, in Noe Valley.
Laura died in 2009 after a battle with cancer. Smigelski lost his home
after she died and became homeless. Courtesy: Ken Smigelski

He lost his Pacifica home to foreclosure in 2010, and spent nearly three
years couch-surfing among friends and family before ending up living in
his car on the streets of San Francisco. He’d suffered from severe
depression his entire life, but being homeless pushed him to new lows.
After three weeks in his car, he decided to kill himself.

2016 Ken Smigelski lived out of his car, which he would park at Fort
Funston, when he lost his home after his wife died. It was during this
time that his depression took hold and he plotted his suicide. He told a
doctor about his plan and was taken to a psychiatric facility for care.
He then got into a program that helped him find housing.Photo: Tim
Hussin, The Chronicle

He’d gone so far as to rent a cheap hotel room and fashion a noose when
some survival instinct kicked in, and he told a doctor of his plans. He
was put on an emergency psychiatric hold, then hospitalized for two
weeks. But as his condition improved, a familiar burden settled over
him. He’d be released soon and had nowhere to go.

“That was half of my stress — where the hell am I going to live?”
Smigelski said. “I was still very suicidal, partly because of that.
Housing was the No. 1 pressing factor.”

That was two years ago, and Smigelski, now 71, finally has a home again.
Just a day before his release from the hospital he found a bed in a
transitional home where he could stay for 90 days. Then two days before
that stint ended, he got a room in a group home run by the Progress
Foundation.

He pays a third of his Social Security retirement income for rent at the
brown-shingled Mission District house. His room is cramped, but the
walls are plastered with his artwork, an easel before the window.

He can live there, he’s told, for the rest of his life.

Video: Tim Hussin, The Chronicle

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Reporter

Erin Allday • eallday@sfchronicle.com <mailto:eallday@sfchronicle.com> •
@erinallday <https://twitter.com/erinallday>

Interactive producers

Lucio Villa • lvilla@sfchronicle.com <mailto:lvilla@sfchronicle.com> •
@luciovilla <https://twitter.com/luciovilla>
Benjamin Din • bdin@sfchronicle.com <mailto:bdin@sfchronicle.com> •
@benjamindin <https://twitter.com/benjamindin>
Emma O'Neill • eoneill@sfchronicle.com <mailto:eoneill@sfchronicle.com>
• @emmaruthoneill <https://twitter.com/emmaruthoneill>
------------------------------------------------------------------------


        Editorial: SF's homeless problem a civic disgrace

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/supportive-housing>


        Solution starts with supportive housing

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/supportive-housing>


        Can the shelter system be successful?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/shelters>


        Can law enforcement curb the crisis?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/encampments>


        A problem that looked the same 20 years ago

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/overview>


        How many people live on our streets?

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/numbers>


        Portraits of life on SF's streets

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/faces-of-the-streets>


        How SF's last 5 mayors tackled homelessness

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/letters-from-the-mayors>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>


    The sign in service is not functioning right now.


    Please try again in a few minutes

If the issues continue, please contact our customer service at

Phone:

Email:


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in


Don't have a profile?


            Don't have a subscription?

Sign up Subscribe

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a profile using


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password
Send me email offers

Already have a profile? Sign In

By clicking "Next" or signing in you confirm that you accept our Terms
and Conditions <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and have read
and understood our Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in


          Hi,


          You are signed in

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>

Maintain your delivery address, payment details and place a vacation
hold in Subscriber Portal.

MANAGE SUBSCRIPTION

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/account/>

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>
SUBSCRIBE

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>
SIGN OUT

<javascript:void(0)>


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our
Terms of Service <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy
Policy <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign In

Keep me signed in
Show password Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Paid Subscription Access Only

You are now signed in but you must have a San Francisco Chronicle
subscription to access any content.

Already have a subscription?

ACTIVATE

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fmental-health%2F>


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          About Me

DISPLAY NAMEDisplay names must begin with an alpha-numeric character.
They can not contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor
may they contain obscenities.

This display name is already in use. Please enter a different display name.

You must enter a display name.

Display names must begin with an alpha-numeric character. They can not
contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor may they
contain obscenities.

EMAIL ADDRESSChanging this email address will also change the email
address associated with your subscription

You must enter an email address.

GENDERThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

BIRTH YEARThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

* are required fields


          SF Chronicle Subscription

You can manage your delivery address, payment details, delete your
account and more subscription details in the subscriber portal.

Manage Subscription

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/account/>


            Get it on all your devices


    Unlimited digital access with every subscription

SFChronicle.com | App for iPhone and iPad
e-edition (daily print replica) | Exclusive member experiences and discounts

SUBSCRIBE NOW AND SAVE!

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/> I have a subscription

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fprojects.sfchronicle.com%2Fsf-homeless%2Fmental-health%2F>


          Password

EDIT

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.


          Password

CANCEL

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.

CURRENT PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Current password is incorrect

Current password field is required

NEW PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain both
upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

New password field is required

CONFIRM PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Confirm password field is required

Show password


    Welcome, !

Your profile, subscription, linked accounts, and newsletter selections
are not viewable by other readers on our sites. Your profile can only be
seen by you. Any comments you post to articles on our sites can be seen
by all readers and moderators.


          Newsletter Preferences

You are subscribed to the following:

  * Top O’ the Bay

    The latest stories from across the San Francisco Bay Area

  * Notes & Errata

    Mark Morford's irreverent and highly satiric weekly column

  * Breaking News

    Be notified when when big stories break or critical warnings are
    issued for the Bay Area

  * Sports

    Coverage of all your Bay Area teams

  * Inside Scoop

    Insider knowledge for Bay Area foodies

  * New Flicks

    The latest movie reviews

  * Business & Technology

    The latest in business, finance, and tech news

  * 5 Things To Do

    Great events across the Bay Area selected just for you


          San Francisco Chronicle Newsletters

  * Chronicle Commuter

    A curated selection of stories just in time for your afternoon commute

  * Membership Updates

    The latest from our membership benefits program (subscribers only)

  * e-edition Reminder

    Reminder of your daily e-edition, a replica of the print newspaper
    (subscribers only)

  * Subscription Reminders

    Notices and reminders about your subscription (subscribers only)


          Email Notifications and Offers

  * Feature Updates

    Special features, new site sections and more from The Chronicle and
    SFGATE

  * Promotions & Sales

    Subscription offers from the San Francisco Chronicle and other
    special promotions

  * Surveys

    Surveys about your Chronicle print edition, websites and other
    digital products

  * Advertiser Special Offers

    Receive special offers sent by us on behalf of select advertisers
    and partners

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in Forgot Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

You must be a subscriber to access this content.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

Stay signed in
Forgot Your Password?


          Sign In

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Back to Sign In

Email address field is required.

Email address is incorrect.

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


          Link Profiles

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot Your Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Forgot Your Password?


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Link Profiles

Stay signed in

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Forgot Your Password?


          SIGN IN


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot Your Password?
Keep me signed in


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Sign In With Your Existing San Francisco Chronicle Account
Sign In
OR

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Keep me signed in
Forgot Your Password?

By signing in, you agree to our terms of use
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/>.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password?

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in
Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot password?

Create an account

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a sign-in for your subscription account


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password

Have a profile on SFGate or San Francisco Chronicle already?

Sign In

Contact Customer Service at 800-310-2455 or email us at
homedelivery@sfchronicle.com <mailto:homedelivery@sfchronicle.com>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in

