//

<#>
//

<#>

  * News <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/view-all-blog-articles>
  * Identities <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/identities>
  * Entertainment <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/entertainment>
  * Music <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/music>
  * Lifestyle <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/lifestyle>

logo <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/>
WYV Exclusive
Sign-up to our mailing list!

  *

    <https://www.facebook.com/wyvmag/>
  *

    <https://twitter.com/wearyourvoice>
  *

    <https://www.instagram.com/wearyourvoicemag/>
  *

    <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCWUELcfXOqUhhlpRW5l5TcA>

//
*Prove your humanity: * 3   +   10   =  
Lost your password?
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/wp-login.php?action=lostpassword&wpe-login=ravneetvohra>


//
//

  * News

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/view-all-blog-articles>
  * Identities

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/identities>
  * Entertainment

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/entertainment>
  * Music

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/music>
  * Lifestyle

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/lifestyle>
  * // Trending

    <#>


        // Trending

    Now

    <#>Week

    <#>Month

    <#>

        Not enough data yet, please check again later.

  * //

    <#>


  The Crisis Within the Crisis: More Senior Women are Homeless, and
  Their Needs are Ignored

ravneetvohra@gmail.com'Guest Blogger
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/guest-blogger>//Jun 30, 2016//Social
Justice <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/social-justice>
Home <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/>//More
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more>//Social Justice
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/social-justice>
Homeless elderly woman in San Francisco.

A homeless elderly woman in San Francisco. Photo by Franco Folini
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/livenature/7085730231/>. Creative Commons
license.


  At 66, I went through breast cancer while homeless, and I’m far from
  alone.

*by CeliaSue Hecht*

Growing up in middle class America, home is one of those things I took
for granted. Today I’m homeless. Now, I am still a human being. Like
you, to survive, I eat, sleep, drink water, breathe, use the restroom
and take a shower. I also make mistakes, feel pain and hurt, sadness,
depression, grief, anger, fear, happiness, love and hope.

Growing up in New York, I saw bag ladies pushing shopping carts in the
city. I was warned that if I did not finish school, get married, or work
a good job, I could end up like them.

Flash forward: Being aged, female and without a home now makes my life
impossible. Last year, I needed surgery for breast cancer — and I had no
home before, during and after the procedure. Facing my own mortality at
the age of 66 has been devastating.

Bad things happen in life, like the recent crash of the economy. It hit
many over 50 especially hard. They lost everything: their jobs, their
homes, their retirement savings. Everyone can face economic catastrophe.

Senior women are the most vulnerable
<https://onestoryroad.com/ciciwriter/elderly_women_sleeping_in_cars_in_america>.
We require sleep, dignity, privacy, compassion and housing. More than
half of all seniors in the USA are living in poverty and cannot afford
housing, according to the American Association of Retired Persons.

Skyrocketing rents, low wages and more contribute to increased rates of
homelessness among older women
<https://www.thenation.com/article/old-female-and-homeless/>. We live
longer, make less money and receive less in Social Security benefits. We
are living in cars, on the streets, in tents. Unless a woman has family
to take care of her, has paid off her home and has $3,000 to $8,000 a
month to pay for assisted living, she is likely to become homeless. With
rents more than three or five times our meager checks, where are we
supposed to live? Isn’t this elder abuse?

Kelli Keane, 83 years old, slept in her van for three years
<http://www.montereyherald.com/article/NF/20150124/NEWS/150129839>.

“Every homeless advocate and shelter monitor I spoke with told me the
older homeless population in San Francisco is exploding. The problem is
bound to get worse as the price of housing reaches new heights,” Keane says.


    Many homeless women have a history of being abused and/or molested.

Some women leave their homes due to domestic violence, while others stay
in violent situations to avoid homelessness. One rape happens every 107
seconds in the USA, more than 322,230 a year, a sixth of rapes get
reported and 12 percent of rapes reported resulted in jail sentences,
according to a 2000 U.S. Department of Justice report. One in four women
experience violence in relationships and they often encounter doubt from
police when they report it.

“I have looked into the question of lies and rapes, and you know who
lies about rape incessantly? Rapists. Which is an insanely obvious a
thing to say, except that no one ever says it, ” says Bay Area writer
Rebecca Solnit
<http://lithub.com/to-break-the-story-you-must-break-the-status-quo/>.

“This (distrust and not believing women
<http://www.huffingtonpost.com/damon-young/men-just-dont-trust-women_b_6714280.html?>)
is part of the reason why it took an entire high school football team
full of women for some of us to finally just consider that Bill Cosby
might not be Cliff Huxtable,” says Damion Young.

“Survivors are so often rendered invisible, feeling they cannot or
should not speak,” John Pavlovitz writes
<http://johnpavlovitz.com/2016/06/09/rape-should-never-be-viral-fighting-sexual-assault-beyond-whats-trending/>.

Because when they do they are not believed, shamed, blamed and accused
of asking for it. So women suffer in silence for years.


    Thankfully, there are many creative solutions to housing women
    without homes.

A 10 year old Washington girl, Hailey Fort
<http://inhabitat.com/9-year-old-girl-builds-tiny-homes-from-scratch-for-the-homeless/>,
is building tiny homes and giving them away. The cities of Austin, Texas
and Eugene and Portland in Oregon, along with the states of Washington,
Michigan, New York, Tennessee, and other places have created tiny home
villages for people without homes.

Tiny-home builder Elvis Summers sat in Mayor Garcetti’s office in Los
Angeles, California, the homeless capital of the USA. Garcetti’s last
homeless policy director said
<http://www.thenewamericanmedia.com/the-arrogant-bureaucracy-my-day-of-press-conferences-and-peaceful-protests/?fb_action_ids=895246777267502&fb_action_types=og.likes&fb_ref=addtoany>,
“[We] don’t give a damn about the homeless, it’s not our top priority.”

Smokie McGee, Summers’ neighbor, was sleeping in the dirt. Summers built
her a tiny home and his video went viral.  Since then, Summers has built
37 tiny 6- by 8-foot houses, which cost $1,200 each.

The homes were confiscated
<http://www.npr.org/2016/03/03/469054634/la-officials-bring-the-hammer-down-on-tiny-houses-for-homeless>
by the city and McGee ended up in the hospital in critical condition,
while a homeless veteran and his wife were robbed and the wife was
brutally raped. Without a locked door and safe shelter, life is brutal.
The homes were eventually returned — in damaged condition. These homes
are meant to be an interim, temporary solution.

“I am committed to helping the homeless,” Summers said.


    Society’s most vulnerable people are also more likely to be homeless.

There are 1.6 million homeless Americans nationwide. The majority
are moms with children, seniors, veterans and working poor. Some become
mentally ill or addicted to drugs or alcohol from sleep deprivation.
They’re banned from society and blamed for their dire circumstances.

*Still, we know how to solve homelessness: giving people homes.* Studies
show that housing the homeless saves taxpayers money
<http://www.endhomelessness.org/pages/cost_of_homelessness>. A new study
conducted by San Francisco’s Budget and Legislative Analyst’s Office
tracked 1,818 homeless adults
<http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/a-crazy-thing-happened-when-homeless-people-in-sf-got-free-housing_us_57507ccce4b0eb20fa0d2f40>
as they entered housing; expenses declined by $31.5 million, or 56
percent. Jail costs dropped from $1.6 million to $580,000, a 64 percent
decline.

Why aren’t more cities providing homes for homeless seniors?

“A lot of people are making money off the poor,” writes Thomas B. Edsall
<http://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/09/17/making-money-off-the-poor/?_r=1>.

Shelters are a costly alternative to permanent housing. And shelters
don’t provide for the unique needs of elderly women
<http://www.montereyherald.com/article/NF/20160119/LOCAL1/160119748>
with health issues.

Besides predatory payday loans, higher prices and scams, *too many
nonprofits who are supposed to be supplying services to homeless women
spend more money on buildings, salaries and expenses than on housing.*

Despite the problems, creative solutions are the answer. Building
cost-effective women’s tiny home villages, apartments, RV parks and/or
hotels must be part of the solution. Dying without a home because you
lost your home should not happen to anyone — specially not to senior women.

/CeliaSue Hecht is a journalist and dog travel expert who writes and
edits on topics ranging from angels to zen, dogs and travel. You can
find more of her writing on her blog
<https://homesweetinyhome.wordpress.com/>. /

|

|


      Comments

Share This Post:
4
/

/
Previous Article
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/race/bring-cultural-appropriation-burning-man-group-get-called-racist>Calling
Out Cultural Appropriation In a Burning Man Group Will Get You Called a
Racist
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/race/bring-cultural-appropriation-burning-man-group-get-called-racist>
/

/
Next Article
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/lifestyle/stylecrush/stylecrush-kobi-jae-horror-kitsch-bitch>StyleCrush:
Kobi Jae of Horror Kitsch Bitch
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/lifestyle/stylecrush/stylecrush-kobi-jae-horror-kitsch-bitch>
ravneetvohra@gmail.com' <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/guest-blogger>
Guest Blogger <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/guest-blogger>


Related Posts

  *
    abuse-relationship-trauma-ptsd-wear-your-voice.jpg
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/two-years-abusive-relationship-memories-ptsd-triggers-haunt>


            Two Years After An Abusive Relationship, My Memories — and
            PTSD Triggers — Haunt Me
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/two-years-abusive-relationship-memories-ptsd-triggers-haunt>

    Mickey Valentine
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/mickey-valentine>//May 11, 2016
  *
    Astrology for Feminists.
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/entertainment/astrology-feminists-620>


            Astrology for Feminists: Week of June 19-26
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/entertainment/astrology-feminists-620>

    Guest Blogger <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/guest-blogger>//Jun
    20, 2016
  *
    Cholx makeup
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/race/4-things-cholx-culture>


            4 Things You Didn’t Know About Cholx Culture
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/race/4-things-cholx-culture>

    Nik Moreno <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/nik-moreno>//Oct 3, 2016
  *
    Clothes tell the story of Katniss' transformation from hunter to
    leader of an uprising. Photo courtesy The Hunger Games: The
    Exhibition.
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/entertainment/hunger-games-exhibit>


            Hunger Games Exhibit Highlights How Fashion — Not Feminism —
            Drives Katniss’ Story
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/entertainment/hunger-games-exhibit>

    Beth Winegarner
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/beth-winegarner>//Mar 10, 2016
  *
    Astrology for Feminists.
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/fashion/astrology-feminists-week-oct-9-15>


            Astrology for Feminists: Week of Oct. 9-15
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/fashion/astrology-feminists-week-oct-9-15>

    Guest Blogger <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/guest-blogger>//Oct
    10, 2016
  *
    women-and-reality-tv-wear-your-voice.jpg
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/entertainment/women-reality-tv-competitions-journey-teaches-feminist-struggle>


            Women and Reality TV: What Competitors’ Journeys Say About
            The Feminist Struggle
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/entertainment/women-reality-tv-competitions-journey-teaches-feminist-struggle>

    Roni Canieso <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/roni-canieso>//Mar
    25, 2016
  *
    Astrology for Feminists.
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/entertainment/astrology-feminists-week-august-1-7>


            Astrology for Feminists: Week of August 1-7
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/entertainment/astrology-feminists-week-august-1-7>

    Guest Blogger <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/guest-blogger>//Aug
    1, 2016
  *
    Ibtihaj Muhammad holding a fencing foil
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/feminism/5-kick-ass-muslim-women-wont-boxed>


            5 Kick-ass Muslim Feminists You Need to Know
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/feminism/5-kick-ass-muslim-women-wont-boxed>

    Heather Jones <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/heather-jones>//Jul
    8, 2016

  * //

    <#>
  * //

    <#>

logo <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/>

  * Media Kit <http://media.wearyourvoicemag.com/>
  * Our Team <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team-page>
  * Terms of Use <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/terms-of-use>

  * About Us <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/our-story>
  * Writer Submissions <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/writer>
  * CONTACT <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/contact>

  * Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/wyvmag/>
  * Instagram <https://www.instagram.com/wearyourvoicemag/>
  * Twitter
    <https://twitter.com/WearYourVoice?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor>
  * Youtube <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCWUELcfXOqUhhlpRW5l5TcA>

:)
