
Issue:  Vol. 46 / No. 47 / 24 November 2016
 

  * About

    <http://www.ebar.com/about/>
      o About the B.A.R.

        <http://www.ebar.com/about/>
      o Advertising

        <http://www.ebar.com/advertising>
  * News

    <http://www.ebar.com/news/>
  * Opinion

    <http://www.ebar.com/columns/>
  * Arts

    <http://www.ebar.com/arts/>
  * Obituaries

    <http://www.ebar.com/obituaries>
  * BARtab

    <http://www.ebar.com/bartab>
  * Search

    <http://www.ebar.com/archives/>
  * Classifieds

    <http://www.ebar.com/classifieds/>

Latest Blogs

<http://ebar.com/blogs>
Three violent robberies reported in Castro

<http://ebar.com/blogs/three-violent-robberies-reported-in-castro/>
by Seth Hemmelgarn
-
Nov 23, 2016
San Francisco police are investigating three violent robberies that have
taken place in the Castro district in recent days. In ...
Three violent robberies reported in Castro
<http://ebar.com/blogs/three-violent-robberies-reported-in-castro/>
Anti-Trump SF artist jailed for ‘racist’ graffiti explains acts
<http://ebar.com/blogs/anti-trump-sf-artist-jailed-for-racist-graffiti-explains-acts/>
Gay Berkeley councilman concedes race
<http://ebar.com/blogs/gay-berkeley-councilman-concedes-race/>
Finn Town eatery announces Castro opening
<http://ebar.com/blogs/finn-town-eatery-announces-castro-opening/>
powered by


  Solutions exist to end HIV homelessness


NEWS

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Published 06/30/2016


      by Matthew S. Bajko

m.bajko@ebar.com <mailto:m.bajko@ebar.com>

Paul Ernest Pingol-Eulalia sits in the Castro Country Club. Photo: Rick
Gerharter
	Print this Page
<http://www.ebar.com/common/inc/article_print.php?sec=news&article=71684>
	Send to a Friend
<http://www.ebar.com/common/inc/staf.php?sec=news&article=71684>
	Share on Facebook <http://www.facebook.com/share.php?u=%3Curl%3E>
	Share on Twitter
<http://twitter.com/home?status=Currently%20reading...%20Solutions%20exist%20to%20end%20HIV%20homelessness%20-%20http://www.ebar.com/news/article.php?sec=news%26article=71684>

	
Share on MySpace! <#>

ADVERTISMENT

At first Paul Ernest Pingol-Eulalia adjusted well to his moving from the
Philippines to Los Angeles in 2003. But the graphic designer's life
began to spiral out of control after he began abusing drugs and alcohol.

He soon found himself living out of cheap motels and turning to
prostitution to ensure he would have a roof over his head for the night.
In March 2008 Pingol-Eulalia, who is gay, learned he had contracted HIV.

"It is hard to deal with addiction if you are homeless," said
Pingol-Eulalia.

Then one day six years ago he mentioned to his case manager at the Los
Angeles LGBT Center that he was thinking of moving to San Francisco to
seek a fresh start. They suggested if he did that he should make his way
to the AIDS Housing Alliance, which recently changed its name to the Q
Foundation.

So Pingol-Eulalia, whose nickname is Paoi, bought himself a Greyhound
bus ticket and arrived in time to make it to the agency's Monday morning
housing clinic.

"When I moved here I had a hunch whatever I was looking for was in San
Francisco," said Pingol-Eulalia, 36, during an interview Monday with the
/Bay Area Reporter/ at the Castro Country Club, a sober meeting place
and cafe in the city's gay district.

He couch-surfed with a female friend his first two weeks in town, then
moved into an apartment owned by a man who had hired him to do some
graphic design work back in Los Angeles. But when the man discovered
Pingol-Eulalia was using meth again, he kicked him out.

Pingol-Eulalia then turned to the Asian and Pacific Islander Wellness
Center, which offered him emergency housing in a "skanky hotel" in the
city's Tenderloin for 28 days. There he tried to sober up and started
attending meetings for people with alcohol and narcotics addictions,
eventually moving to a live-in rehab facility for a month.

Once out, he cycled through several sober living situations before
landing a room in the Sunset with three gay roommates. He has been there
now for 30 months and has been clean and sober for four and a half years.

"It really boils down to having a safe space. A safe space to me is a
place I can go to and have a key to turn the door open with," said
Pingol-Eulalia, who owns his own graphic design business called Pepe
Creative Solutions. "It was hard for me to stay sober until I could
figure out my housing situation."

While he credits the various nonprofit agencies that have helped him
over the years, Pingol-Eulalia nonetheless feels there aren't enough
services to help other people living with HIV or AIDS struggling to
remain housed in San Francisco.

"We spent a lot of money on the Super Bowl, when we could have built
more facilities for the homeless," he said.

City and nonprofit leaders acknowledge San Francisco is not doing enough
to house people living with HIV or AIDS. The city's most recent HIV/AIDS
Housing Five-Year Plan, which was released in December 2014, concedes on
the first page "that the level of housing need for PLWHA is far greater
than the resources available to meet that need."

According to the report, which used data from the city's 2013 Homeless
Point-in-Time Count and Survey, as well as 2014 numbers from the city's
Human Services Agency, 6 percent of the estimated 29,400 homeless
individuals in San Francisco were HIV-positive, or 1,764 people. The
report also estimated that 14,320 HIV-positive, low-income city
residents were at risk of being homeless.

Homelessness is a contributing factor to the continued transmission of
HIV in San Francisco, as according to the HIV housing plan, between 9
and 14 percent of the individuals diagnosed as HIV positive in 2006
through 2012 were homeless.

Compounding the issue is the fact that HIV-positive individuals are
living longer, with the majority of the city's HIV-positive community
over the age of 50. The result is the need for assistance to cover
people's housing costs far outstrips the amount of subsidies the city is
providing.

Between 2002 and 2014, the number of people receiving subsidies declined
roughly 16 percent, from 1,190 slots down to 998. According to the HIV
housing plan, in 2014 the city was providing "targeted housing
assistance" – meaning housing or subsidy programs limited to people
living with HIV or AIDS – "at any point in time to 1,462 households
impacted by HIV/AIDS."

Bill Hirsh, the executive director of the AIDS Legal Referral Panel and
a co-chair of the HIV/AIDS Provider Network, noted, "About 76 percent of
the people living with HIV are at risk of homelessness because they pay
so much of their income to rent. That I think is the scarier figure,
even scarier than the number of people who are homeless. That is a lot
of people."

Added Brian Basinger, Q Foundation's founder and executive director, "In
what crazy world are we living in where we are not running to City Hall
with pitchforks and demanding that this situation is addressed?"

He has proposed that local leaders convene a group of stakeholders
tasked with conducting "a very deliberate and evidence-based analysis"
to determine what is driving LGBT homelessness and homelessness among
people with HIV and AIDS.

"It is not an accident that 30 percent of the city's homeless population
comes from the LGBT community. That is not just a statistical anomaly;
there is a reason why we have such great disparities in homelessness,"
Basinger said. "We need to find out what is driving the homelessness,
where are the supports lacking, where are people falling through the
cracks and ending on the street. Also, the deeper questions are why is
our city, and why as a community, are we accepting that?"

Supervisor Scott Wiener, a gay man who represents the city's District 8,
which includes the gay Castro district, told the /B.A.R. / the city has
been making strides to keep HIV-positive people housed. It is a main
goal of the city's Getting to Zero plan, noted Wiener, which not only
aims to reduce HIV infections by 90 percent come 2020 but also end HIV
deaths, as well as HIV stigma. After a fight over the program's budget
last week, the Board of Supervisors voted to allocate $3.1 million
toward it in the fiscal year that starts July 1.

"Part of keeping HIV-positive people healthy is keeping them housed,"
said Wiener. "Housing is a key part of Getting to Zero."

 

Goals

The HIV housing plan set out five main goals, three of which were
squarely focused on addressing the city's housing supply. The first
called for maintaining the current supply of housing and facilities
dedicated to people living with HIV or AIDS.

It runs the gamut from residential care facilities for chronically ill
people to the federal housing subsidy program known as HOPWA, which
stands for Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS.

"The first thing we have to do is stop the bleeding," argued Basinger.
"So we have to stop every single eviction that is within our powers to
stop. That is first, otherwise the boat is going to sink."

To reduce the city's HIV-positive homeless count by 5 percent over the
next five years, Hirsh estimated the cost would be nearly $2.9 million
per year, which would provide 160 people an ongoing monthly subsidy of
$1,500.

The city has budgeted $3 million in the Fiscal Year 2016-2017 budget for
housing subsidies for seniors and people with disabilities, which
includes people living with HIV or AIDS.

"I don't know how the money will be allocated and spent. But it was a
good victory," said Hirsh. "There has been some progress made since the
plan's release."

The HIV housing plan also called for adding 50 new affordable rental
units designated for HIV-positive individuals by 2019 and funding an
additional 25 rental subsidies through the HOPWA program so it totaled 265.

"This is a problem we can solve," said Wiener. "We just have to have the
political will to make the investment and we are doing that."

Wiener secured $500,000 in the budget for the next fiscal year to assist
those HIV-positive individuals in their early 60s who are aging out of
their long-term private disability insurance that they got through their
employer over to Social Security. Doing so often means a significant
drop in their income, which is compounded by the fact many of the people
didn't plan for their retirement years as they doubted they would live
that long.

"It is not enough, but it is a good, very strong first step in terms of
showing our commitment as a city to support our long-term HIV
survivors," said Wiener. "I think the city has been doing more, but we
need to do even more."

Earlier this month the supervisors unanimously passed Wiener's
legislation to extend rent control to HIV-positive people living in
HOPWA units. The legislation, co-sponsored by gay District 9 Supervisor
David Campos and board President London Breed, who represents District
5, will benefit 240 HOPWA recipients.

And the city over the last two years has backfilled $4,340,000 in
federal cuts to its HOPWA program.

"The city has done a great job of stepping up to fill those federal
cuts," acknowledged Hirsh. "But the problem is there is actually a great
unmet need for many, many people still in need of affordable housing.
Simply backfilling and maintaining what we have is not going to help us
move the needle."

 

HIV senior housing

This fall the city will open its first affordable housing development
aimed at LGBT seniors that includes rooms dedicated to HIV-positive
seniors at risk for homelessness. Known as the 55 Laguna project, and
overseen by LGBT senior services provider Openhouse and affordable
housing developer Mercy Housing, the first building to be completed will
have eight rooms set aside for HIV-positive seniors. When the second
building opens, sometime in 2018, there will be an additional 14 rooms
for HIV-positive seniors.

Another step the city can take, which Wiener argues would benefit
low-income HIV-positive people, is to give people who live or work in
San Francisco preference for any new below-market-rate units built in
the city. The board this summer is expected to adopt legislation Wiener
has introduced that would make such a preference city policy.

"We are working so hard to build more affordable housing. We need to
make sure our own residents have a fair shot to get into that housing,"
he said.

HIV housing advocates, along with Wiener, are also eyeing the two
city-owned parking lots in the Castro as potential sites where
affordable housing could be built, with all or some of the units
dedicated to people living with HIV or AIDS. The San Francisco Municipal
Transportation Agency is currently studying the two sites' development
potential.

Yet Hirsh cautioned, "without a deep, ongoing operating subsidy, it will
be very hard, if not impossible, to create new housing that is
affordable to folks at the very lowest income levels."

With federal funding on the decline, he predicted the city would have to
fund the housing subsidies residents of the new buildings would require.

"So if those lots in the Castro are developed with all shiny, wonderful
new construction, unless there is some manna falling from heaven in the
form of Section 8 vouchers from the federal government, the city will
have to come up with a subsidy to make them affordable for our folks who
are on SSI," said Hirsh.

To build support for funding housing assistance programs, Pingol-Eulalia
believes the public needs to hear more stories about formerly homeless
people who have "found redemption" once they were offered housing.

"I think people know the San Francisco homeless issue does exist. But
people turn their back thinking it is a moral failure to be homeless,"
he said. "Homelessness is not a moral issue; addiction is not a moral
issue. It is a disease that needs to be cured."

 






Copyright © 2016, Bay Area Reporter, a division of BAR, Inc. All Rights
Reserved.

Home <http://www.ebar.com/index.php>  |   News
<http://www.ebar.com/news/>  |   Open Forum
<http://www.ebar.com/openforum/>  |   Columns
<http://www.ebar.com/columns/>  |   Arts & Entertainment
<http://www.ebar.com/arts/>  |   Arts Columns
<http://www.ebar.com/artscolumns/>  |   BARtab
<http://www.ebar.com/bartab/>  |   Classifieds
<http://www.ebar.com/classifieds/>  |   Obituaries
<http://www.ebar.com/obituaries/>  |   Archives
<http://www.ebar.com/archives/>  |   About the BAR
<http://www.ebar.com/about/>  |   Advertising
<http://www.ebar.com/advertising>


Follow The Bay Area Reporter
facebook logo
<http://www.facebook.com/pages/Bay-Area-Reporter/395391936135>
facebook logo <http://twitter.com/ebarnews>
Newsletter logo <http://ebar.com/newsletter>
Newsletter logo <http://ebar.com/blogs/?feed=rss>
ISSUU logo <http://issuu.com/bayareareporter>
<http://ebar.com/ads/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=2179__zoneid=6__cb=38057759a9__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.stevenunderhill.com%2F>
<http://ebar.com/ads/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=2490__zoneid=12__cb=5e37dfdef2__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.therhino.org%2F>
<http://ebar.com/ads/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=1162__zoneid=13__cb=d1d622a039__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.apothecariumsf.com%2F>


<http://ebar.com/ads/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=1223__zoneid=14__cb=4f41e6981b__oadest=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.issuu.com%2Fbayareareporter%2Fdocs%2Fbayareareporter_june_23_2016>


<http://ebar.com/ads/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=2475__zoneid=12__cb=8432d94bdd__oadest=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.reaf-sf.org%2Fhelp-is-on-the-way-for-the-holidays-xv.html>
<http://ebar.com/ads/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=1493__zoneid=9__cb=2d500216c1__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.apothecariumsf.com>


<http://ebar.com/ads/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=2443__zoneid=4__cb=b217bc2969__oadest=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.johnpaul1.org>


<http://ebar.com/ads/www/delivery/ck.php?oaparams=2__bannerid=2478__zoneid=6__cb=621457f8f9__oadest=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2Fpages%2FOrphan-Andys-Restaurant%2F111223272233795>
