×


        Get Fusion

Only the good stuff right to my inbox, please.

 
Email Address

 
 
Privacy Policy <http://fusion.net/privacy-policy/>


        AND YOU'RE IN!

Be on the lookout for great stories from Fusion, served right to your inbox.

Close


      Fusion

      <http://fusion.net/>

Menu

<#>


    Main Menu

  * News

    <http://fusion.net/section/news/>
  * Justice

    <http://fusion.net/section/justice/>
  * Pop & Culture

    <http://fusion.net/section/pop-culture/>
  * Sex & Life

    <http://fusion.net/section/sex-life/>
  * Real Future

    <http://fusion.net/section/real-future/>
  * Voices

    <http://fusion.net/section/voices/>
  * Shows

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Shows

        <#>
      o AMERICA with Jorge Ramos

        <http://fusion.net/show/america-with-jorge-ramos/>
      o The Chris Gethard Show

        <http://fusion.net/show/the-chris-gethard-show-2/>
      o Chris Gets Money

        <http://fusion.net/series/chrisgetsmoney>
      o Democracy Handbook

        <http://fusion.net/series/democracy-handbook/>
      o Drug Wars

        <http://fusion.net/show/drug-wars/>
      o My Selfie Life

        <http://fusion.net/series/myselfielife/>
      o Nightline on Fusion

        <http://fusion.net/show/nightline-on-fusion/>
      o Real Future Show

        <http://fusion.net/series/real-future-show/>
      o The Traffickers

        <http://fusion.net/page/the-traffickers/>
      o Trump vs. Bernie

        <http://fusion.net/series/trumpvbernie/>
      o TV Schedule

        <http://fusion.net/schedule/>
      o Channel Lineup

        <http://fusion.net/tv-channel-lineup/>
  * More

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o More

        <#>
      o Americas

        <http://fusion.net/section/americas/>
      o The Naked Truth

        <http://fusion.net/section/naked-truth/>
      o Project Earth

        <http://fusion.net/section/project-earth/>
      o Money

        <http://fusion.net/section/money/>
      o Your Voice 2016

        <http://fusion.net/series/voting-campaign/>
      o Rise Up: Be Heard

        <http://fusion.net/series/riseupbeheard/>
      o Graphic Culture

        <http://fusion.net/series/graphic-culture/>
      o Interactives

        <http://fusion.net/series/interactives/>
      o Video

        <http://fusion.net/videos/digital/>
      o FUSION en Español

        <http://fusion.net/section/espanol/>
      o Contributors

        <http://fusion.net/authors/>
      o Newsletter

        <http://fusion.net/newsletter-subscribe/>


    Search

  * Facebook

    <https://www.facebook.com/fusionmedianetwork>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/fusion>
  * Youtube

    <https://www.youtube.com/user/thisisfusion>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/ThisIsFusion>
  * Snapchat

    <https://www.snapchat.com/add/fusion>
  * Newsletter

    <http://fusion.net/newsletter-subscribe/>

Fusion

<http://fusion.net/>
There’s a proven way to help reduce homelessness—so why aren’t we using
it more?
# Email
<mailto:?subject=There%E2%80%99s%20a%20proven%20way%20to%20help%20reduce%20homelessness%E2%80%94so%20why%20aren%E2%80%99t%20we%20using%20it%20more%3F&body=via%20fusion.net%20%3E%20http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F317655%2Fsection-8-vouchers-homelessness%2F%3Futm_source%3Demailshare%26utm_medium%3Demail%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dsticky%2Bnav_desktop>

# Tweet
<https://twitter.com/share?url=http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F317655%2Fsection-8-vouchers-homelessness%2F%3Futm_source%3Dtwitter%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dsticky%2Bnav_desktop&text=There%E2%80%99s%20a%20proven%20way%20to%20help%20reduce%20homelessness%E2%80%94so%20why%20aren%E2%80%99t%20we%20using%20it%20more%3F&via=fusion>

# Share
<https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F317655%2Fsection-8-vouchers-homelessness%2F%3Futm_source%3Dfacebook%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dsticky%2Bnav_desktop>


Housing is a right
6 <http://fusion.net/2016/06/>/29 <http://fusion.net/2016/06/29/>/16
<http://fusion.net/2016/> 1:36 PM	


  There’s a proven way to help reduce homelessness—so why aren’t we
  using it more?

By Alexis C. Madrigal <http://fusion.net/author/alexis-c-madrigal/> and
Michael Rosen <http://fusion.net/author/michaelrosenfusion/>
Getty Images


Related Videos

Jorge_Ramos_on_what_it_was_like_to_chall	

<http://fusion.net/video/372831/jorge-ramos-on-what-it-was-like-to-challenge-fidel-castro-briefly-on-camera/>



      Jorge Ramos on what it was like to challenge Fidel
      Castro—briefly—on camera
      <http://fusion.net/video/372831/jorge-ramos-on-what-it-was-like-to-challenge-fidel-castro-briefly-on-camera/>


Even_some_Republicans_support_open_relat	

<http://fusion.net/video/372828/even-some-republicans-support-open-relations-with-cuba/>



      Even some Republicans support open relations with Cuba
      <http://fusion.net/video/372828/even-some-republicans-support-open-relations-with-cuba/>


Fidel_Castro_is_gone__but_Cuba_s_future_	

<http://fusion.net/video/372820/fidel-castro-is-gone-but-cubas-future-is-still-not-clear/>



      Fidel Castro is gone, but Cuba's future is still not clear
      <http://fusion.net/video/372820/fidel-castro-is-gone-but-cubas-future-is-still-not-clear/>


<http://fusion.net/author/alexis-c-madrigal/>


    Alexis C. Madrigal <http://fusion.net/author/alexis-c-madrigal/>

Alexis Madrigal is Fusion's Editor at Large. He was a senior editor at
The Atlantic and a staff writer at Wired. He's the author of Powering
the Dream.

Michael-Rosen_b&w

<http://fusion.net/author/michaelrosenfusion/>


    Michael Rosen <http://fusion.net/author/michaelrosenfusion/>

Michael Rosen is a reporter for Fusion based out of Oakland.

By Alexis C. Madrigal <http://fusion.net/author/alexis-c-madrigal/> and
Michael Rosen <http://fusion.net/author/michaelrosenfusion/>

  * Follow

    <https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=alexismadrigal>
  * Feed

    <http://fusion.net/author/alexis-c-madrigal/feed/>

Share

<https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F317655%2Fsection-8-vouchers-homelessness%2F%3Futm_source%3Dfacebook%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_top_desktop>
Tweet

<https://twitter.com/share?url=http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F317655%2Fsection-8-vouchers-homelessness%2F%3Futm_source%3Dtwitter%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_top_desktop&text=There%E2%80%99s%20a%20proven%20way%20to%20help%20reduce%20homelessness%E2%80%94so%20why%20aren%E2%80%99t%20we%20using%20it%20more%3F&via=fusion>
WhatsApp
<whatsapp://send?text=There%E2%80%99s%20a%20proven%20way%20to%20help%20reduce%20homelessness%E2%80%94so%20why%20aren%E2%80%99t%20we%20using%20it%20more%3F%20http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F317655%2Fsection-8-vouchers-homelessness%2F%3Futm_source%3Dwhatsapp%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_top_desktop>
Tumblr

<https://www.tumblr.com/widgets/share/tool?url=http://fusion.net/story/317655/section-8-vouchers-homelessness/?utm_source=tumblr&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=socialshare&utm_content=theme_top_desktop&text&tags=activism%2Cgentrification&shareSource=legacy&canonicalUrl=http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F317655%2Fsection-8-vouchers-homelessness%2F%3Futm_source%3Dtumblr%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_top_desktop&title&content&show-via=thisisfusion&caption&post-type>
Email

<mailto:?subject&body=via%20fusion.net%20%3E%20http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F317655%2Fsection-8-vouchers-homelessness%2F%3Futm_source%3Demailshare%26utm_medium%3Demail%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_top_desktop>

By Alexis C. Madrigal <http://fusion.net/author/alexis-c-madrigal/> and
Michael Rosen <http://fusion.net/author/michaelrosenfusion/>

In the Bay Area, where so many young people make so much money and the
rents keep getting too-damn higher, the plight of those who simply can’t
afford a home can be hard to see.

But there are thousands of poor people in San Francisco and the
surrounding region, for whom even the tiny supply of low-cost housing is
unaffordable. And for these citizens, there’s supposed to be a solution:
a form of government assistance known as a Housing Choice Voucher, which
provides substantial housing assistance to low-income people.

These vouchers, the largest part of the federal government’s Section 8
program, are supposed to allow low-income residents to live in
market-rate apartments, rather than public housing projects (which have
been under attack and declining for decades
<http://object.cato.org/sites/cato.org/files/serials/files/regulation/2002/7/v25n2-11.pdf>).
People who receive a voucher contribute a fixed percentage of their
income toward rent on a property — generally, around 30% — and the
vouchers cover the rest. The vouchers are a national program, but they
are administered by thousands of local agencies. For example, locally,
the San Francisco Housing Authority is in charge of distributing them to
residents of the city.

In San Francisco and the surrounding region, homelessness is a huge
problem. Officials estimate there are more than 6,600 people living on
the streets of the city. In an effort to find solutions that help these
citizens, Bay Area news organizations banded together to create the SF
Homeless Project
<http://www.sfgate.com/homeless/article/SF-Homeless-Project-Letter-to-the-City-8326254.php>,
spearheaded by the San Francisco Chronicle. This story appears in the
#SFHomelessProject
<https://twitter.com/search?q=%23SFHomelessProject&src=typd> series.

The Housing Choice Vouchers program dates to the 1970s, as a solution to
low-income housing backed by what a Cato Institute paper calls
“rock-hard conservatives.” Yet, now, many liberal and centrist housing
policy analysts support the voucher programs as an alternative to public
housing, and the best available solution for people with very little income.

“Vouchers sharply reduce homelessness and other hardships, lift more
than a million people out of poverty, and give families an opportunity
to move to safer, less poor neighborhoods,” summarized the non-partisan
(but generally progressive) thinktank Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities. “These effects, in turn, are closely linked to educational,
developmental, and health benefits that can improve children’s long-term
prospects and reduce costs in other public programs.”

Despite (at least nominal) bipartisan support and the proven benefits of
the vouchers, the program remains woefully underfunded.

–– ADVERTISEMENT ––

In 2014, the federal appropriation for Housing Choice Vouchers was $18
billion, which is not nearly enough to meet the demand. The
Congressional Budget Office estimates that only a quarter of the 20
million renter households that /could/ receive assistance actually do.

“Other countries, in Europe in particular, you have automatic subsidies
to help pay the rent,” New School sociologist Alex Schwartz told Fusion.
“But in this country, you have to apply and the supply is very limited.”

In expensive areas like San Francisco, that can mean a long road waiting
for a Housing Choice Voucher. Families stall for years, even decades,
before finally emerging from the interminable waitlist, if they can even
get on the waitlist in the first place. (It is currently closed.)
Meanwhile, irreversible damage can be done to the youngest low-income
people.

“They’re sleeping on mats in emergency shelters,” Jennifer Friedenbach,
the director of the Coalition on Homelessness, told Fusion. “They’re
falling behind scholastically. They’re moving from place to place, being
forced into situations where they’re witnessing violence. It’s really
awful for folks.”

But there is no ironclad rule that funding for housing vouchers could
not be increased. And in fact, there is a very obvious mechanism for
doing so. Right now, the biggest government giveaway for private
citizens is the mortgage interest tax deduction that millions of
homeowners get. Not only is this a $69 billion tax giveaway
<http://mercatus.org/publication/reforming-mortgage-interest-deduction>—the
second largest tax break in America—64% of the benefits go to people
making more than $100,000 a year, according to a 2014 economic analysis
<http://mercatus.org/publication/reforming-mortgage-interest-deduction>.

Countries like Canada, the UK, and Australia do not have mortgage
interest tax deductions, yet have similar rates of home ownership. So,
why not pull back on tax breaks for the relatively well-off to help the
poorest among us?

Daniel Hertz of the thinktank City Observatory made precisely this
argument
<http://cityobservatory.org/make-housing-vouchers-an-entitlement-we-can-afford-it/>
in an article last month. Based on the Congressional Budget Office’s
calculations
<http://www.novoco.com/low_income_housing/resource_files/research_center/cbo_federal_housing_assistance_low-income_households_091515.pdf>,
it would take just $41 billion more per year to fully fund a voucher
program that would keep people like the folks Friedenbach works with
with a roof over their heads. That’s significantly less money than we
give away to relatively wealthy people, in the form of the mortgage
interest tax deduction.

“It’s not really even a matter of the money available,” Schwartz said,
“it’s how we spend it.”

For America’s poorest people, the cost of housing boggles the mind. As
traced in the recent award-winning book, /Evicted/, by Harvard
anthropologist Matthew Desmond, keeping a roof over one’s head at very
low-income levels is a neverending struggle. “Today, the majority of
poor renting families in America spend over half of their income on
housing, and at least one in four dedicates over 70 percent to paying
the rent and keeping the lights on,” Desmond writes.

This means that the poorest Americans are often evicted, destabilizing a
person or family’s whole life, with predictably terrible outcomes,
including homelessness.

“For almost a century, there has been broad consensus in America that
families should spend no more than 30 percent of their income on
housing. Until recently, most renting families met this goal. But times
have changed… across America,” Desmond writes. “Every year in this
country, people are evicted from their homes not by the tens of
thousands or even the hundreds of thousands but by the millions.”

These evictions, predictably, fall unevenly across racial and gender
lines. In Milwaukee, where Desmond did his ethnographic research, /1 in
5/ black women had been evicted during their lifetimes, compared with 1
in 12 Hispanic women and 1 in 15 white women.

by Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=univision-fusion&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-f:Mid%20Article%20Thumbnails%203rd:>by
Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=univision-fusion&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-f:Mid%20Article%20Thumbnails%203rd:>
Powered
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=univision-fusion&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-f:Mid%20Article%20Thumbnails%203rd:>Powered
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=univision-fusion&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-f:Mid%20Article%20Thumbnails%203rd:>
Powered
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=univision-fusion&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-f:Mid%20Article%20Thumbnails%203rd:>Powered
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=univision-fusion&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-f:Mid%20Article%20Thumbnails%203rd:>
You May Like
<http://fusion.net/comic/257517/cartoon-clinton-trump-juanita-broaddrick-rape-accusation/>Cartoon:
A Curious Role Reversal on a Rape Accusation
<http://fusion.net/comic/257517/cartoon-clinton-trump-juanita-broaddrick-rape-accusation/>
Undo
The A.V. Club
<http://avclub.com/article/toxic-avenger-franchise-monument-putridness-nihili-235917?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=exchange&utm_campaign=FMG_Fusion&utm_term=univision-fusion>The
Toxic Avenger Franchise Is a Monument to Putridness, Nihilism, and I…The
A.V. Club
<http://avclub.com/article/toxic-avenger-franchise-monument-putridness-nihili-235917?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=exchange&utm_campaign=FMG_Fusion&utm_term=univision-fusion>
Undo
The Root
<http://www.theroot.com/articles/news/2016/11/this-homeless-mans-swanked-out-digs-include-bed-and-living-room/?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=exchange&utm_campaign=FMG_Fusion&utm_term=univision-fusion>This
Homeless Man’s Swanked-Out Digs Include a Bed and Living RoomThe Root
<http://www.theroot.com/articles/news/2016/11/this-homeless-mans-swanked-out-digs-include-bed-and-living-room/?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=exchange&utm_campaign=FMG_Fusion&utm_term=univision-fusion>
Undo

Desmond’s work is a book-length argument that housing is an interlinked
but independent variable in determining the life outcomes of the very
poor. And right now, an expansion of the country’s voucher program could
help improve those outcomes and reduce homelessness.

Of course, the there-is-no-silver-bullet caveat applies. In a very
expensive housing market like the Bay Area’s, many issues would remain.
Hertz of City Observatory
<http://cityobservatory.org/make-housing-vouchers-an-entitlement-we-can-afford-it/>
told Fusion that even if every single low-income person were
theoretically capable of accessing the voucher program, landlords can be
hesitant to accept Section 8 housing, especially in expensive areas like
San Francisco and Oakland. There’s red tape to wade through, landlords
often discriminate against those with housing vouchers, and the low
“fair market rates” assigned by the Housing and Urban Development
department make it very difficult to find a reasonable place to live.

A story in the /San Francisco Chronicle /exemplifies this phenomenon
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/East-Bay-housing-officials-fear-impact-of-federal-6580425.php>.

    In Berkeley, rents have climbed so high that Section 8 vouchers have
    “basically been rendered useless,” said Tia Ingram, head of the
    city’s housing authority.

    “If you just go on Craigslist, probably 8 out of 10 listings will
    say ‘no Section 8,’” she said, adding that even some landlords in
    Berkeley who have a history of working with the program are now
    opting out. In one case, she said, a landlord was able to raise the
    monthly rent for a two-bedroom apartment from $1,743 to $2,500 after
    a Section 8 tenant moved out.

At the time of publication, there were 1,089 listings in the San
Francisco Bay Area Craigslist that listed “No Section 8” in their
occupancy requirements.

no section 8-2

In an expanded-voucher world, there might be some solutions to the
problems highlighted here. Hertz points to a pilot program called “Small
Area FMRs”
<https://www.huduser.gov/portal/datasets/fmr/smallarea/index.html> that
seek to adjust the “fair market rate” to match the zip code of the
apartment or house. If you live in the popular Mission district, for
example, your voucher would go further than someone living in a less
expensive area of the city.

Housing is a human need—and like food assistance—all citizens should
have a right to help keeping a roof over their heads.

“You can’t expect people in places where housing is uncertain to
thrive,” said Rutgers housing historian Beryl Satter. “It’s how you
live, it’s how a child grows up, it’s how elderly people survive. You
can’t really treat it as a commodity in the way that it is being treated.”


    Story Tags

Tags

  * News <http://fusion.net/section/news/>
  * Activism <http://fusion.net/topic/activism/>
  * gentrification <http://fusion.net/topic/gentrification/>
  * San Francisco <http://fusion.net/location/san-francisco/>

Open Comments
by Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=univision-fusion&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails%20-%201%20row:>by
Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=univision-fusion&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails%20-%201%20row:>
Powered
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=univision-fusion&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails%20-%201%20row:>Powered
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=univision-fusion&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails%20-%201%20row:>
Powered
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=univision-fusion&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails%20-%201%20row:>Powered
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=univision-fusion&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails%20-%201%20row:>
You May Like
<http://fusion.net/story/165548/why-women-love-porn-gifs/>Why some women
prefer their porn in GIFs
<http://fusion.net/story/165548/why-women-love-porn-gifs/>
Undo
<http://fusion.net/story/265027/a-reporter-was-sexually-assaulted-while-reporting-on-sexual-assault/>A
Reporter Was Sexually Assaulted While Reporting on Sexual Assault
<http://fusion.net/story/265027/a-reporter-was-sexually-assaulted-while-reporting-on-sexual-assault/>
Undo
The A.V. Club
<http://avclub.com/article/s-so-raven-changed-disney-channel-ways-no-one-coul-236629?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=exchange&utm_campaign=FMG_Fusion&utm_term=univision-fusion>That’s
so Raven Changed Disney Channel in Ways No One Could Have PredictedThe
A.V. Club
<http://avclub.com/article/s-so-raven-changed-disney-channel-ways-no-one-coul-236629?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=exchange&utm_campaign=FMG_Fusion&utm_term=univision-fusion>
Undo
TWEET

<https://twitter.com/share?url=http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F317655%2Fsection-8-vouchers-homelessness%2F%3Futm_source%3Dtwitter%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_bottom_desktop&text=There%E2%80%99s%20a%20proven%20way%20to%20help%20reduce%20homelessness%E2%80%94so%20why%20aren%E2%80%99t%20we%20using%20it%20more%3F&via=fusion>
SHARE

<https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F317655%2Fsection-8-vouchers-homelessness%2F%3Futm_source%3Dfacebook%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_bottom_desktop>
EMAIL

<mailto:?subject&text=There%E2%80%99s%20a%20proven%20way%20to%20help%20reduce%20homelessness%E2%80%94so%20why%20aren%E2%80%99t%20we%20using%20it%20more?&body=via%20fusion.net%20%3E%20http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F317655%2Fsection-8-vouchers-homelessness%2F%3Futm_source%3Demailshare%26utm_medium%3Demail%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_bottom_desktop>
WHATSAPP
<whatsapp://send?text=There%E2%80%99s%20a%20proven%20way%20to%20help%20reduce%20homelessness%E2%80%94so%20why%20aren%E2%80%99t%20we%20using%20it%20more%3F%20http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F317655%2Fsection-8-vouchers-homelessness%2F%3Futm_source%3Dwhatsapp%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_bottom_desktop>

what to expect
11 <http://fusion.net/2016/11/>/29 <http://fusion.net/2016/11/29/>/16
<http://fusion.net/2016/> 5:10 PM	


  Three ways Trump’s pick for Health and Human Services Secretary is a
  nightmare for all of us

By Nidhi Prakash <http://fusion.net/author/nidhiprakash/>
Getty Images

Nidhi-Prakash_b&w

<http://fusion.net/author/nidhiprakash/>


    Nidhi Prakash <http://fusion.net/author/nidhiprakash/>

Nidhi Prakash is a journalist in NYC via Sydney, London, Santiago,
Auckland, Mumbai. She reports on international news, healthcare, labor
news, and more for Fusion.

By Nidhi Prakash <http://fusion.net/author/nidhiprakash/>

  * Follow

    <https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=nidhiprakash>
  * Feed

    <http://fusion.net/author/nidhiprakash/feed/>

Share

<https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F372645%2Ftrump-tom-price-hhs%2F%3Futm_source%3Dfacebook%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_top_desktop>
Tweet

<https://twitter.com/share?url=http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F372645%2Ftrump-tom-price-hhs%2F%3Futm_source%3Dtwitter%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_top_desktop&text=Three%20ways%20Trump%27s%20pick%20for%20Health%20and%20Human%20Services%20Secretary%20is%20a%20nightmare%20for%20all%20of%20us&via=fusion>
WhatsApp
<whatsapp://send?text=Three%20ways%20Trump%27s%20pick%20for%20Health%20and%20Human%20Services%20Secretary%20is%20a%20nightmare%20for%20all%20of%20us%20http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F372645%2Ftrump-tom-price-hhs%2F%3Futm_source%3Dwhatsapp%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_top_desktop>
Tumblr

<https://www.tumblr.com/widgets/share/tool?url=http://fusion.net/story/372645/trump-tom-price-hhs/?utm_source=tumblr&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=socialshare&utm_content=theme_top_desktop&text&tags=lgbt%2Cpolitics&shareSource=legacy&canonicalUrl=http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F372645%2Ftrump-tom-price-hhs%2F%3Futm_source%3Dtumblr%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_top_desktop&title&content&show-via=thisisfusion&caption&post-type>
Email

<mailto:?subject&body=via%20fusion.net%20%3E%20http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F372645%2Ftrump-tom-price-hhs%2F%3Futm_source%3Demailshare%26utm_medium%3Demail%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_top_desktop>

By Nidhi Prakash <http://fusion.net/author/nidhiprakash/>

In another anti-LGBTQ, anti-choice addition to his cabinet,
President-elect Trump announced today that he’s nominating Georgia
congressman Tom Price to be Secretary of Health and Human Services.

“Chairman Price, a renowned physician, has earned a reputation for being
a tireless problem solver and the go-to expert on healthcare policy,
making him the ideal choice to serve in this capacity,” Trump said
<http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/elections/2016/2016/11/28/reports-rep-tom-price-trumps-pick-health-and-human-services-dept/94578690/>.

Price, an orthopedic surgeon, is a close ally of Vice President-elect
Mike Pence and House Speaker Paul Ryan. He’s consistently voted against
LGBTQ equality and protection measures, is firmly pro-life, and has been
a staunch critic of the Affordable Care Act, with clear intentions to
gut Obama’s landmark healthcare law.

In the days following the election, after meeting with President Obama,
Trump said he was reconsidering his campaign promise
<http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/12/business/insurers-unprepared-for-obamacare-repeal.html>to
repeal the Affordable Care Act entirely. Choosing Price significantly
moves the needle back toward repeal. That would mean that some 22
million Americans could lose their health insurance
<https://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/114th-congress-2015-2016/costestimate/hr3762senatepassed.pdf>,
with dire consequences for LGBTQ Americans and abortion rights.

Republicans released a plan in June
<http://abetterway.speaker.gov/?page=health-care>that they say would
better serve Americans–but its costs and how long it could take to
implement are so far unclear. It’s also not clear how many of those 22
million would be covered under their proposed plan. The Republican plan
would allow insurers to charge older, sicker patients more compared to
younger, healthier patients and places more emphasis on Medicaid block
grants for states to use at their discretion rather than direct federal
funding of healthcare programs.

With the likelihood of the Affordable Care Act’s demise in mind, here
are the three main ways Price’s helm at the agency charged with the
literal health of the country could be bad for a lot of people:


    *LGBTQ rights*

In 2007, Price co-sponsored a bill
<https://www.congress.gov/bill/110th-congress/house-joint-resolution/22/cosponsors>proposing
a constitutional amendment that would have banned same-sex marriage. The
same year, he opposed an employment non-discrimination bill
<https://www.govtrack.us/congress/votes/110-2007/h1057>and a bill to
provide federal assistance
<https://www.congress.gov/bill/111th-congress/house-bill/01913>to local
law enforcement to investigate and prosecute hate crimes.

After the Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of same-sex
marriage last year, he called the decision
<http://www.metroweekly.com/2016/11/anti-gay-georgia-congressman-head-dept-health-human-services/>“not
only a sad day for marriage, but a further judicial destruction of our
entire system of checks and balances.”

For LGBTQ Americans, Price’s anti-LGBTQ record is worrying because the
Affordable Care Act’s anti-discrimination clauses—which specifically
prohibit healthcare discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or
gender identity—could be repealed or not enforced.

But Price’s homophobic comments (he once referred to
<http://www.rightwingwatch.org/post/rep-tom-price-fears-negative-health-and-economic-impacts-of-gay-rights-bills/>LGBTQ
rights as “activity that has been seen as outside the norm” that could
lead to negative “medical health and costs”) and voting record in the
past also suggest that federal funding for LGBTQ health programs like
HIV/AIDS initiatives and transgender health programs could be at risk.


    *Reproductive rights*

Price has said that he doesn’t think women need insurance plans that
include birth control, as currently mandated by the Affordable Care Act.
In a2012 interview with ThinkProgress reporter Scott Keyes
<https://thinkprogress.org/house-republican-leader-price-theres-not-one-woman-who-doesn-t-have-access-to-birth-control-5a13b090799c#.7e5djexut>,
he said he doesn’t believe there are women in America who can’t afford
birth control out of pocket and that ACA rules are a violation of
religious freedom (emphasis theirs):

    KEYES: Obviously one of the main sticking points is whether or not
    contraception coverage is going to be covered under health insurance
    plans and at hospitals and whether or not they’re going to be able
    to pay for it, especially for low-income women. Where do we leave
    these women if this rule is rescinded?

    PRICE: *Bring me one woman who has been left behind. Bring me one.
    There’s not one.*The fact of the matter is, this is a trampling of
    religious freedom and religious liberty in this country. The
    president does not have the power to say that your First Amendment
    rights go away. That’s wrong.

Price has also consistently supported bills aimed at severely
restricting abortion and de-funding reproductive health care providers
like Planned Parenthood. Last year he co-sponsored
<https://www.congress.gov/bill/114th-congress/house-bill/940>the Health
Care Conscience Rights Act in Congress, which was partly aimed at
undercutting the Affordable Care Act’s provisions that women be covered
for access to abortion and contraception through their health insurance.
The 2007 Right to Life Act, which he also supported, would have
criminalized nearly all abortion across the country. He has a 100%
rating from the National Right to Life Committee
<http://nrlc.capwiz.com/nrlc/bio/id/2572&congress=1131&lvl=C>, which
lists 52 bills that Price has voted on since 2005 in line with his
anti-choice stance.


    *Gun control*

The American Medical Association has labeled gun control a public health
crisis
<http://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2016-06-14/ama-calls-gun-violence-a-public-health-crisis>(some
30,000 people are killed in gun violence across the country each year).
In 2013, shortly after the Sandy Hook massacre, Obama used an executive
order to lift a restriction that prevented the Centers for Disease
Control from researching the impact and causes of gun violence as a
public health issue.

But as the /Washington Post/reports
<https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/storyline/wp/2015/01/14/why-the-cdc-still-isnt-researching-gun-violence-despite-the-ban-being-lifted-two-years-ago/>,
the CDC has remained reluctant to examine gun control, partly because
when they did in 1996, Congress threatened to strip their funding.
That’s a dynamic that’s likely to be encouraged under Price’s leadership
of the Department of Health and Human Services. Price has an A rating
from the NRA
<https://votesmart.org/interest-group/573/rating/5574#.WD3O3RNViko>and
has been an outspoken opponent of gun control measures.

“We know that the safe use and responsible ownership of firearms has
time and time again safeguarded individual and public safety. In fact,
guns are used more often to protect lives, not take lives. Steps to
remove firearms from the hands of law-abiding citizens endangers those
very citizens,” he said in a statement
<https://tomprice.house.gov/press-release/price-counters-president-obama%E2%80%99s-gun-speech>following
Obama’s speech proposing gun control measures earlier this year (the
idea that more guns make us safer has been disproven
<http://www.slate.com/articles/health_and_science/science/2015/12/research_on_mass_shootings_shows_guns_do_not_make_u_s_safe.html>by
multiple
<https://law.stanford.edu/2015/10/12/professor-john-donohue-facts-do-not-support-claim-that-guns-make-us-safer/>
studies
<https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/news/hsph-in-the-news/scientists-agree-guns-dont-make-society-safer/>)

Combined with a Supreme Court nominee
<http://fusion.net/story/369311/trump-supreme-court-nominee/>who’s
likely to hold many of the same views as Price and the other cabinet
picks
<http://fusion.net/story/372338/devos-trump-secretary-education-lgbtq/>Trump
has so far announced, we’re likely to see the Republican-led Senate and
House gain traction quickly on restricting abortion access and LGBTQ
rights and protections over the next four years.

The Trump transition team and Price’s office did not immediately respond
to requests for comment.


    Story Tags

Tags

  * News <http://fusion.net/section/news/>
  * Politics <http://fusion.net/topic/politics/>
  * LGBT <http://fusion.net/topic/lgbt/>
  * Donald Trump <http://fusion.net/person/donald-trump/>

Open Comments
Sports diplomacy in the trump era
11 <http://fusion.net/2016/11/>/29 <http://fusion.net/2016/11/29/>/16
<http://fusion.net/2016/> 4:20 PM	


  These Mexican-American twins are separated by jerseys and united by love

By Rafa Fernandez De Castro
<http://fusion.net/author/rafa-fernandez-de-castro/>

<http://fusion.net/author/rafa-fernandez-de-castro/>


    Rafa Fernandez De Castro
    <http://fusion.net/author/rafa-fernandez-de-castro/>

Rafa Fernandez De Castro is a Fusion consultant for Mexico and Latin
America. He covers Mexican youth, politics, culture, narcos and funny
stuff once in a while.

By Rafa Fernandez De Castro
<http://fusion.net/author/rafa-fernandez-de-castro/>

  * Follow

    <https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=rafafc91>
  * Feed

    <http://fusion.net/author/rafa-fernandez-de-castro/feed/>

Share

<https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F372799%2Fthese-mexican-american-twins-are-separated-by-jerseys-and-united-by-love%2F%3Futm_source%3Dfacebook%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_top_desktop>
Tweet

<https://twitter.com/share?url=http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F372799%2Fthese-mexican-american-twins-are-separated-by-jerseys-and-united-by-love%2F%3Futm_source%3Dtwitter%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_top_desktop&text=These%20Mexican-American%20twins%20are%20separated%20by%20jerseys%20and%20united%20by%20love&via=fusion>
WhatsApp
<whatsapp://send?text=These%20Mexican-American%20twins%20are%20separated%20by%20jerseys%20and%20united%20by%20love%20http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F372799%2Fthese-mexican-american-twins-are-separated-by-jerseys-and-united-by-love%2F%3Futm_source%3Dwhatsapp%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_top_desktop>
Tumblr

<https://www.tumblr.com/widgets/share/tool?url=http://fusion.net/story/372799/these-mexican-american-twins-are-separated-by-jerseys-and-united-by-love/?utm_source=tumblr&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=socialshare&utm_content=theme_top_desktop&text&tags=sports&shareSource=legacy&canonicalUrl=http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F372799%2Fthese-mexican-american-twins-are-separated-by-jerseys-and-united-by-love%2F%3Futm_source%3Dtumblr%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_top_desktop&title&content&show-via=thisisfusion&caption&post-type>
Email

<mailto:?subject&body=via%20fusion.net%20%3E%20http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F372799%2Fthese-mexican-american-twins-are-separated-by-jerseys-and-united-by-love%2F%3Futm_source%3Demailshare%26utm_medium%3Demail%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_top_desktop>

By Rafa Fernandez De Castro
<http://fusion.net/author/rafa-fernandez-de-castro/>

Monica and Sabrina Flores captured the internet’s heart last weekend
when they faced each other during a soccer match between the U.S. and
Mexico in the Women’s Sub-20 World Cup in Papua New Guinea.

The 20-year-old twins, who were born in New Jersey to a Mexican father
and an American mother, chose to play for different national teams: with
Monica joining Team Mexico, and Sabrina suiting up for Team U.S.A.

Off the field, the sisters both study medicine at the University of
Notre Dame, and are virtually inseparable. But they put on different
jerseys last Friday when their teams squared off in the soccer tournament.

“Our parents generally don’t suffer,” Monica told FIFA before the match.
“Quite the contrary, they get excited and equally support the two of us.
What they want is for us to have a good game.”

Their story became an international sensation when TV cameras caught
Sabrina trying to cheer up Monica after the U.S. beat Mexico 2-1.

The match has been hailed as a much-needed example of sports diplomacy,
as U.S.-Mexico relations chill in the wake of Donald Trump’s win in the
presidential election.

With economic and political relations uncertain, soccer could become an
increasingly important part of keeping the U.S.-Mexico relationship
strong. It already is. The U.S. and Mexico men’s soccer teams faced each
other in a heated yet brotherly match three days after the U.S. elections.

And now Monica and Sabrina remind us that sisterly love is also stronger
than nationalist rhetoric.

 


    Story Tags

Tags

  * Americas <http://fusion.net/section/americas/>
  * Sports <http://fusion.net/topic/sports/>

Open Comments
This time it's for real
11 <http://fusion.net/2016/11/>/29 <http://fusion.net/2016/11/29/>/16
<http://fusion.net/2016/> 4:07 PM	


  Outlasting a dictator

By Jorge Ramos <http://fusion.net/author/jorge-ramos/>
AFP/Getty Images

JorgeRamos_b&w

<http://fusion.net/author/jorge-ramos/>


    Jorge Ramos <http://fusion.net/author/jorge-ramos/>

Jorge Ramos is the host of Fusion's 'AMERICA with Jorge Ramos' and
Univision's 'Noticiero Univision' and 'Al Punto'. You can watch him on
Fusion every Tuesday, 10PM ET / 7PM PT.

By Jorge Ramos <http://fusion.net/author/jorge-ramos/>

  * Follow

    <https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=jorgeramosnews>
  * Feed

    <http://fusion.net/author/jorge-ramos/feed/>

Share

<https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F372790%2Foutlasting-a-dictator%2F%3Futm_source%3Dfacebook%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_top_desktop>
Tweet

<https://twitter.com/share?url=http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F372790%2Foutlasting-a-dictator%2F%3Futm_source%3Dtwitter%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_top_desktop&text=Outlasting%20a%20dictator&via=fusion>
WhatsApp
<whatsapp://send?text=Outlasting%20a%20dictator%20http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F372790%2Foutlasting-a-dictator%2F%3Futm_source%3Dwhatsapp%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_top_desktop>
Tumblr

<https://www.tumblr.com/widgets/share/tool?url=http://fusion.net/story/372790/outlasting-a-dictator/?utm_source=tumblr&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=socialshare&utm_content=theme_top_desktop&text&tags&shareSource=legacy&canonicalUrl=http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F372790%2Foutlasting-a-dictator%2F%3Futm_source%3Dtumblr%26utm_medium%3Dsocial%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_top_desktop&title&content&show-via=thisisfusion&caption&post-type>
Email

<mailto:?subject&body=via%20fusion.net%20%3E%20http%3A%2F%2Ffusion.net%2Fstory%2F372790%2Foutlasting-a-dictator%2F%3Futm_source%3Demailshare%26utm_medium%3Demail%26utm_campaign%3Dsocialshare%26utm_content%3Dtheme_top_desktop>

By Jorge Ramos <http://fusion.net/author/jorge-ramos/>

Many times during the 30 years that I’ve lived in Miami, I’ve heard that
Cuban dictator Fidel Castro was dead. In fact, Castro died two or three
times a year, on average. Rumors would spread; I would get calls and
texts about his death. These reports, of course, always turned out to be
false.

Until this last one.

When the false reports of Castro’s demise would come in, I used to dash
to Univision’s studios and prepare for the official announcement. But as
the years passed, I came to see that this was a futile exercise. Reports
of Castro’s death, to paraphrase Mark Twain, were always greatly
exaggerated.

Castro died in Havana on Nov. 25 at age 90, after a nearly 58-year grip
on power in Cuba.

I met him just once, in 1991, and I still remember how his long
fingernails felt on my left shoulder. The Berlin Wall had recently
fallen, and the world’s Communist nations were fragmenting. I had gone
to Guadalajara, Mexico, to cover the first Ibero-American Summit. I
found Castro as he walked out of his hotel room, and I spoke with him
for a total of 63 seconds.

Castro tried to put his arm around me, and as I pulled away I asked him
if perhaps the time had come for him to step down, now that the Soviet
Union was no more. “Many people think this is the moment for you to call
for a plebiscite,” I told him. He responded that nobody had the right to
demand such a thing from Cuba. Then one of his bodyguards pushed me, and
I lost my balance. Castro kept on walking without turning back. That was it.

Castro was a brutal dictator, quick to use violence. He ordered the
executions of his opponents, locked up political prisoners and violated
human rights. He also averted multiparty elections, viciously censored
the press and maintained absolute control over every corner of the
island. He wasn’t a hero, and we shouldn’t present him as one now that
he’s dead.

For years, I asked Latin American leaders if they considered Castro a
dictator. Very few dared to admit it on the record. They feared and
respected him and admired how he stood up to the United States for so
long. Only in private would they denounce Cuba’s lack of liberty.

Now that Castro is gone, I’d rather talk not about him but about his
millions of victims. For three decades, I’ve witnessed the suffering of
Cuban exiles. I have many Cuban friends. I work with them. They’re my
neighbors. I know the stories about their escapes and how they
reinvented themselves in the United States after losing everything.

My two children’s grandparents fled the Cuban dictatorship years ago.
During Pope St. John Paul II’s visit to the island in 1998 (before Cuba
canceled my visa), I could visit the neighborhoods where Nicolas and
Paola’s grandparents lived before they had to leave behind the life they
had known.

Today, when I hear people criticize Cuban exiles who have fled to other
countries, it strikes me as cruel and ignorant, as if a double standard
is in place. Castro was every bit as much a killer as Chile’s Augusto
Pinochet, though he never received anywhere near the same level of
international condemnation as Pinochet.

For almost six decades, Cuba has been, and remains, a ruthless
dictatorship. Yes, the American embargo of Cuba had a negative impact on
most Cubans, but Cuba has no justification for continuing to be one of
the world’s most oppressive states, and among the least connected to the
internet. After all, there’s a reason the Cuban “balseros” keep arriving
by the thousands on Florida shores.

I don’t know if there can be “Castrismo” without Castro. Venezuela’s
authoritarian regime has demonstrated that, sadly, there can be
“Chavismo” without Hugo Chavez. Castro’s policies may well endure on the
island. So far, Raul Castro, Fidel’s brother, in charge since 2008,
hasn’t offered any sign of imminent democratic changes, despite Cuba’s
diplomatic openings with President Barack Obama.

It’s possible that Fidel Castro’s death won’t change anything in Cuba.
But I know that my exiled friends feel a calm sense of victory. Despite
all their suffering, they’ve maintained their honor and dignity. They
confronted a dictator — and survived.

/Jorge Ramos, an Emmy Award-winning journalist, is a news anchor on
Univision and the host of “America With Jorge Ramos” on Fusion.
Originally from Mexico and now based in Florida, Ramos is the author of
several best-selling books. His latest is “Take a Stand: Lessons From
Rebels.”/


    Story Tags

Tags

  * Americas <http://fusion.net/section/americas/>
  * Cuba <http://fusion.net/location/cuba/>

Open Comments


    Fusion

    <http://fusion.net/>

# Facebook

<https://www.facebook.com/fusionmedianetwork>
# Twitter

<https://twitter.com/fusion>
# Youtube

<https://www.youtube.com/user/thisisfusion>
# Instagram

<https://instagram.com/ThisIsFusion>
# Tumblr

<https://www.snapchat.com/add/fusion>
# Vine

<https://versy.com/feed/user:56c3cbd7-321c-4074-aaca-4cea31f17d72?campaignCode=c~Fusion~Web~PartnerPortal~~>

# Tumblr

<http://fusion.net/newsletter-subscribe/>

  * About Us <http://about.fusion.net/>
  * Advertising <http://about.fusion.net/advertising/>
  * Contact Us <http://fusion.net/contact-us/>
  * Sitemap <http://fusion.net/sitemap/>
  * Press <http://wearefusion.tumblr.com/>
  * Jobs
    <https://careers-fusion.icims.com/jobs/intro?hashed=-435776033&mobile=false&width=835&height=500&bga=true&needsRedirect=false>
  * Content Labeling Guidelines
    <http://fusion.net/content-labeling-guidelines/>
  * Privacy Policy <http://fusion.net/privacy-policy/>
  * Terms of Use <http://fusion.net/terms-of-use/>
  * User Submission Agreement
    <http://fusion.net/user-content-submission-agreement/>
  * Sign Up For Our Newsletter <http://fusion.net/newsletter-subscribe/>

External links are provided for reference purposes. Fusion is not
responsible for the content of external internet sites.

© 2016 Fusion Media Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Powered by
WordPress.com VIP <https://vip.wordpress.com/>.

×


          To Watch This Video


      Select your TV provider, sign in and watch!

[AT&T U-verse]
[Cox]
[DIRECTV]
[DISH]
[Google Fiber]
[Playstation Vue Vision]
[Verizon Fios]
More providers to come soon.

NoneNoneNoneNone
:)
