The Bold Italic
<https://thebolditalic.com/?source=logo-lo_c9c5f5ebb63f---191186aaafa0>
Follow
<https://twitter.com/thebolditalic><https://facebook.com/TheBoldItalic>
Sign in / Sign up
<https://medium.com/m/signin?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fthebolditalic.com%2Fthese-are-the-faces-of-san-franciscos-homelessness-crisis-8fd3750edacc>
Home <https://thebolditalic.com/>San Francisco
<https://thebolditalic.com/tagged/san-francisco>Photo Essay
<https://thebolditalic.com/tagged/photo-essay>Food
<https://thebolditalic.com/tagged/food>Humor
<https://thebolditalic.com/tagged/humor>Travel
<https://thebolditalic.com/tagged/travel>Nightlife
<https://thebolditalic.com/tagged/nightlife>Politics
<https://thebolditalic.com/tagged/tech><https://thebolditalic.com/search>
Next story


        How Bay Area Theaters Are Reacting to the Election

<https://thebolditalic.com/trump-on-ice-your-guide-to-political-theater-in-the-bay-area-efacbdf16dc3?source=read_next_metabar----------45>
33
3

  * Share
  *
    33

  *
*

Go to the profile of The Bold Italic Editors

<https://thebolditalic.com/@thebolditalic?source=post_header_lockup>
The Bold Italic Editors
<https://thebolditalic.com/@thebolditalic?source=post_header_lockup>BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
We’re the editing team behind The Bold Italic, an online magazine
celebrating the free-wheeling spirit of San Francisco.
Jun 29

------------------------------------------------------------------------


  These Are the Faces of San Francisco’s Homelessness Crisis


        Photography by Phoebe Heaton / Text by Keith A. Spencer
        <https://medium.com/u/1f5cc655aa0e>

The greatest power of the photograph is its ability to pause time.
Things that we would not dare stare at for more than a fleeting moment
are made still by the shutter — frozen in a moment, forever, compelling
us to return to them again and again.

Homelessness
<https://thebolditalic.com/meet-monroe-the-gardener-from-homeless-to-sro-c6f8a486e48b#.5ppc9teut>
is a crisis that needs to be frozen. It is something that is, from our
perception, always fleeting. We look for a second, drop a coin or look
away, and then we forget. We step over a body lying prostrate on the
sidewalk. We experience moments of remorse or empathy, and then return
to our routines.

    “The way that most homeless people live on the streets shocks and
    saddens me. But what I think is even more scary is that, having
    worked in SOMA for almost a year, I am accustomed to seeing poverty
    and drug and alcohol abuse on the streets at 10:00 a.m. on a Monday.”

    — Phoebe Heaton, photographer

How is one of the wealthiest regions in the world
<http://www.citylab.com/housing/2016/05/the-rise-of-million-dollar-homes-in-san-francisco-and-the-bay-area/483485/>
incapable of providing the most basic human right to its constituents?
Why are billion-dollar companies
<https://thebolditalic.com/get-ready-for-everything-in-san-francisco-to-be-named-after-the-rich-the-bold-italic-san-7cdbdc672a95#.thiumzgdx>
coddled
<https://thebolditalic.com/san-francisco-is-vanishing-the-bold-italic-san-francisco-ec6dde2073fe#.6oc21yogg>
by our politicians, while the neediest go without shelter?

The status quo is not how it is because of malice or ignorance. It is a
matter of organizing. We live in a democracy. These things can change if
enough of us stand up and demand that they do.

But they won’t change if we look away.

Photography captures those people whom we can see — those who live
exposed lives in the public eye. But what about those who don’t?
Thousands of homeless people in San Francisco are single mothers
<https://www.theguardian.com/society/2015/dec/18/san-francisco-homeless-crisis-single-moms-kids>,
most of whom choose to live on friends’ couches and in shelters rather
than subject their children to the unprotected terror of the street.
Many of them are victims of domestic violence.

Gentrification is often understood as a process of residential
circulation, whereby different classes replace each other in a stairlike
pattern toward wealth. What we don’t consider is how gentrification
causes violence. In rapidly gentrifying housing markets, women (and
their children) are more likely to stay
<http://www.theage.com.au/victoria/housing-costs-trapping-women-in-domestic-violence-20150521-gh6gmi.html>
in abusive relationships, fearful of being cast out onto the street if
they leave.

If you refuse to be shocked by faces, maybe you’ll be shocked by
numbers. As of 2014, income inequality in the Bay Area was similar to
that of developing nations
<http://www.sfgate.com/bayarea/article/Income-inequality-on-par-with-developing-nations-5486434.php>.
Homeless youth have mortality rates that are 10 times
<https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2016/apr/14/san-francisco-homeless-youth-ten-times-more-likely-to-die>
as high as that of their non-homeless peers.

We have become a Dickensian city of the rich and the poor, the haves and
the have-nots. The rosy tech-industry futurists—who e-sermonize
<http://www.businessinsider.com/facebooks-mark-zuckerberg-predictions-about-the-future-2015-7?IR=T>
about techno-utopianist, app-delivered tomorrows—preach a façade. For
all the rhetoric of technological “disruption,” the main disruption so
far is to our social fabric.

We have a choice, though. We can keep looking away. We can stay numb and
let things decay further. Or we can freeze. We can demand housing for
everyone. We can demand that we live in a world where everyone is
entitled to the most basic human need — that of safe shelter. What
future do you want? It’s ours to decide.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


        Join the Coalition on Homelessness <http://www.cohsf.org/>.


        Tell Mayor Ed Lee <http://www.sfmayor.org/index.aspx?page=7> to
        prioritize housing for everyone.


        Tell state senator Mark Leno <http://sd11.senate.ca.gov/contact>
        that housing is a right, not a commodity.

Homeless <https://thebolditalic.com/tagged/homeless?source=post>San
Francisco
<https://thebolditalic.com/tagged/san-francisco?source=post>Photo Essay
<https://thebolditalic.com/tagged/photo-essay?source=post>Essay
<https://thebolditalic.com/tagged/essay?source=post>This Just In
<https://thebolditalic.com/tagged/this-just-in?source=post>
33
3
#
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Go to the profile of The Bold Italic Editors

<https://thebolditalic.com/@thebolditalic?source=footer_card>


      The Bold Italic Editors <https://thebolditalic.com/@thebolditalic>

We’re the editing team behind The Bold Italic, an online magazine
celebrating the free-wheeling spirit of San Francisco.

#
Follow
The Bold Italic

<https://thebolditalic.com/?source=footer_card>


      The Bold Italic <https://thebolditalic.com/?source=footer_card>

The Bold Italic is an online magazine that celebrates the character and
free-wheeling spirit of San Francisco and the Bay Area.

<https://thebolditalic.com/i-peed-standing-up-for-a-week-the-results-were-messy-b1dc631c9f03?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
More on Essay from The Bold Italic
I Peed Standing Up for a Week. The Results Were Messy

<https://thebolditalic.com/i-peed-standing-up-for-a-week-the-results-were-messy-b1dc631c9f03?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
Go to the profile of Sarah Miller

<https://thebolditalic.com/@ORgirlin94704>
Sarah Miller
<https://thebolditalic.com/@ORgirlin94704?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
33
<https://medium.com/@limabeantown/homeless-cf9d93ab42a6?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Also tagged Homeless
homeless

<https://medium.com/@limabeantown/homeless-cf9d93ab42a6?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Go to the profile of lima bean

<https://medium.com/@limabeantown>
lima bean
<https://medium.com/@limabeantown?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
21
<https://medium.com/art-marketing/-5afeeba88793?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Also tagged Homeless
On the Mosaic Trail

<https://medium.com/art-marketing/-5afeeba88793?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Go to the profile of Marie Argeris

<https://medium.com/@argerism>
Marie Argeris
<https://medium.com/@argerism?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
33
Responses
Write a response…
Unknown user
No responses yet
Show all responses

×

Don’t miss The Bold Italic Editors’s next story
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
The Bold Italic EditorsThe Bold Italic Editors
