
	Hoodline wordmark
	The "Hoodline" wordmark or logo, spelled out in a bold font.
	

<http://hoodline.com/>

  * News

    <http://hoodline.com/>
  * Events

    <http://hoodline.com/events>

//

  * Log in
    <http://hoodline.com/login?return_to=%2F2016%2F06%2Fthey-re-here-they-re-queer-but-can-they-stay-the-state-of-youth-lgbtq-housing-in-san-francisco>

  * Sign up <http://hoodline.com/signup>

//


  They're Here, They're Queer, But Can They Stay? The State Of Youth
  LGBTQ Housing In San Francisco

Main image downing castroyouth
Youth rally for safe and fair housing in the Castro (2010). Photo: Steve
Rhodes/Flickr <https://www.flickr.com/photos/ari/4906214765/>

Wed. June 29, 2016, 9:16am
Icon user
Icon user
Screen shot 2015 12 10 at 3.27.15 pm
by Shane Downing
@SCdowning <http://twitter.com/SCdowning>
website <http://www.scdowning.com/>
Icon map
Icon map
neighborhoods
Citywide, Castro <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/castro>
Icon location
Icon location
location
127 Collingwood St, San Francisco, CA 94114

<https://maps.google.com/maps?ll=37.760389,-122.435806&z=16&t=m&hl=en-US&gl=US&mapclient=apiv3>
Map Data
Map data ©2016 Google
Map DataMap data ©2016 Google
Map data ©2016 Google
Terms of Use <https://www.google.com/intl/en-US_US/help/terms_maps.html>
Report a map error
<https://www.google.com/maps/@37.760389,-122.4358063,16z/data=!10m1!1e1!12b1?source=apiv3&rapsrc=apiv3>
Map
Terrain
Satellite
Labels
SF Shipyard <http://hoodline.com/ads/51/118/2>

/[Editor's Note: Hoodline is participating in today's SF Homeless
Project <https://www.facebook.com/sfhomelessproject>, in which more than
70 area publications are each covering homelessness issues in their own
ways. /

/While we already write about these issues often, we hope that our
stories today will add more neighborhood context to this very
complicated topic, and to the great work being published elsewhere. You
can read more about the project here
<http://www.sfgate.com/homeless/article/SF-Homeless-Project-Letter-to-the-City-8326254.php>.]/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

“A lot of our young youth of color don’t feel accepted within the Castro
community,” said Kate Climquim, the program manager for Larkin Street’s
Castro Youth Housing Initiative. “There’s a sense of being forgotten."

In a 2015 point-in-time homeless count, unaccompanied children and youth
represented
<http://thinkprogress.org/economy/2015/09/28/3706332/san-francisco-homeless-youth/>
21 percent of all homeless individuals in San Francisco — 1,441
transitional age youth between the age of 18 and 24 and 128 youth under
the age of 17. While the national estimate of homeless youth who
identify as LGBTQ is 20%, nearly half of the city’s homeless youth
identify as LGBTQ, up from 26 percent in 2013.

The Castro District has long been a destination and refuge for LGBTQ
people around the country regardless of age, color, and origin; however,
with not enough affordable housing units in the neighborhood, it is
challenging for homeless LGBTQ youth to stabilize and become successful
adults in the Castro.

“We have a lot of people coming in from not just the Bay Area, but
California, the United States, and even out of the country who want to
come to San Francisco hoping to find the queer community,” Climquim
said. In last year’s point-in-time homeless count and survey, 56 percent
of the city’s homeless youth were living in San Francisco when they
became homeless, with about a fifth of youth moving to the city from
outside of California. “The number one reason for that is due to not
being welcomed in their families and communities of origin,” explained
Climquim.

Forty-eight percent of homeless youth in San Francisco identify as
LGBTQ.*Photo: Homeless Hub/Flickr
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/homelesshub/8610360528/in/photolist-e7SmcS-q522qR-deMtGt-q4Nw3s-qJfptG-r1DUtV-qJo9LM-qV2PGG-qJfsH7-qJe8v9-r1DU1k-cs9dd7-qJmv6R-8sEaHS-eZ9Xyi-nMMsQy-8nKuGf-6pq3xx-8oDuEU-6ptWXA-deMtyA-deMuaY-6pu9Gq-95qAbj-qJft1S-r1DS8n-dYoQUq-q51XLX-qfzXfS-r1DTrp-r1NXXp-8dABAf-8oDuvd-deMudg-deMu3H-6ppNse-6puaew-qV2QRf-deMtG9-8oAjJ8-6oHVq5-deMtT1-7PEpuc-qfMWPM-deMtCP-deMtZL-qfzVxd-8oDvyU-qV92k8-8dxitM>*

With fifteen percent of youth reporting
<http://www.sfmayor.org/modules/showdocument.aspx?documentid=455> that
their sexual identity directly contributed to their homelessness, Larkin
Street’s Castro Youth Housing Initiative aims to get LGBTQ youth off of
the streets and onto their feet. CYHI, as Climquim referred to the
housing initiative, is a two-year program for transitional age LGBTQ
youth that provides "culturally competent" case management services and
access to referrals for mental health, physical health, education and
employment services.

According to Climquim, the model of offering both housing and support
services  under the same roof works. At the end of 2015, 98 percent of
Castro youth remained housed at the initiative, and 63 percent
maintained or increased their monthly income. Of the youth who moved on
from the program, shared Climquim, 88 percent exited into stable
housing, with 95 percent of former clients saying that they would
recommend Larkin Street’s services to their friends.

The housing initiative, comprised of an SRO and two apartments in the
Castro District, has 28 beds. “We’re working on getting other housing
opportunities,” said Climquim, “but there is an affordable housing issue.”

Youth rally at Castro and Market for housing (2010).*Photo: Steve
Rhodes/Flickr <https://www.flickr.com/photos/ari/4906803450/>*

In 2007, San Francisco made new housing for at-risk youth
<http://sfmohcd.org/transition-age-youth-housing> a top priority: at any
given time, there was approximately
<http://www.taysf.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/TAYSF_PolicyPrioritiesdoc.pdf>
four and a half times the number of homeless youth in San Francisco than
there was available housing. The city set a goal to create 400
additional units of housing for youth by 2015. As of July of last year
<http://thinkprogress.org/economy/2015/09/28/3706332/san-francisco-homeless-youth/>,
263 of the 400 units had either been completed, were under construction,
or had land identified to begin construction.

According to the Mayor’s Office of Housing, in the past 12 months, only
seven units have been added to this list, leaving the city 130 units
below a goal that it was intended to hit last year.

“Having housing options that are specific to LGBT young people is
critical,” said Jodi Schwartz, executive director of LYRIC, a
Castro-based LGBTQ youth center located on Collingwood Street. “We
particularly hear from transgender young people that they really have a
hard time feeling safe and receiving culturally competent services in
the housing options that do exist.”

According to Schwartz, San Francisco is not offering enough available
housing and competent services to LGBTQ youth. And that's a dangerous
area to fall short. Youth who are living on the streets have more than
double the rate of HIV/AIDS than their older, homeless peers (13 percent
versus 6 percent for the broader population). More so, without access to
safe, stable housing, LGBTQ homeless youth may resort to what is called
survival sex.

In a 2015 repor
<http://www.sfmayor.org/modules/showdocument.aspx?documentid=455>t,
twenty percent of San Francisco’s homeless youth reported trading sex
for a place to stay. “There’s youth who are doing sex work,” said
Schwartz, “and that is an overlapping conversation [with affordable
housing]. The primary force behind young people involved in sex work is
economic need and limited ability to get the housing options that they
need without having money.”

The Castro District is a beacon to the larger LGBTQ community. *Photo:
Noah Whiteman/Hoodline*

“Throughout the years, San Francisco has served as this point where a
lot of young LGBTQ people come to find their community,” Calimquim said.
“How do we as LGBT people support our younger siblings in finding their
‘gay mecca?’"

In Schwartz’s opinion, Castro residents should be pushing less for
quality of life
<http://hoodline.com/2016/06/we-re-frustrated-castro-neighbors-voice-concerns-at-fix-it-workshop?utm_source=story&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=stories>
enforcement in the neighborhood, and more for building housing for queer
youth. In May, the /Bay Area Reporter/ reported that SFMTA has expressed
interest in two parking lots
<http://ebar.com/news/article.php?sec=news&article=71561>, including one
behind the Castro Theatre, as potential affordable housing sites. “It
isn’t a quick fix. It’s not," said Schwartz. "I  challenge the adults in
our community, who themselves have had their own experiences of trauma
and disconnection, to step up as advocates to ask the city to put the
resources in place that these young people need to be successful, and to
step away from putting more and more money into programs around quality
of life cleanup
<http://hoodline.com/2016/06/city-s-new-fix-it-team-seeks-input-to-address-castro-s-quality-of-life-issues?utm_source=story&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=stories>.”

LYRIC’s vision is "a diverse society where LGBTQ youth are embraced for
who they are and encouraged to be who they want to be." *Photo: Shane
Downing/Hoodline*

“Housing is the foundation of everything,” added Castro Youth Housing
Initiative’s Calimquim, “in addition to mental health care. Once we get
those things done, and with the right amount of culturally competent
support, these young people can blossom and do amazing things: it’s just
a matter of having that chance. Folks aren’t able to succeed given the
high cost of housing.”

Although LYRIC's Schwartz admitted that it is becoming tougher and
tougher for people across San Francisco to secure housing, she outlined
what has allowed many of us to be successful: connections. “We are able
to be successful because we have connection,” said Schwartz. “We have
friends who love and support us; we have family — whether it’s chosen or
natural family — that loves us and supports us; we have people who will
help us find jobs; and we have people who will help us get connections
with housing."

"LGBTQ youth who are living on the street have the same needs as we all
do," Schwartz said, "and there is nowhere near the amount of housing
options for them."

share this story:


      Never miss a story.

Subscribe today to get Hoodline delivered straight to your inbox.

subscribe:

subscribe


  Keep reading about Castro <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/castro>


Related:


  Mount Olympus Development Leaves Neighbors Fearing Rockslides,
  Construction Damage & More

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/mount-olympus-development-leaves-neighbors-fearing-rockslides-construction-damage-more>


Img 5184

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/mount-olympus-development-leaves-neighbors-fearing-rockslides-construction-damage-more>


Neighbors are especially concerned about how the steep hillside will be
stabilized during construction.

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/mount-olympus-development-leaves-neighbors-fearing-rockslides-construction-damage-more>

Castro
 <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/castro> Cole Valley
 <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/cole-valley> Corona Heights


  We Asked, You Answered: The Best Things About The Castro

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/the-best-things-about-the-castro>

Castrobest

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/the-best-things-about-the-castro>

Here's what local commenters had to say about their Castro neighborhood
favorites.

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/the-best-things-about-the-castro>
Castro
 <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/castro> Duboce Triangle
 <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/duboce-triangle>


  Scenes From The Castro's 2016 Holiday Tree Lighting Ceremony

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/scenes-from-the-castro-s-2016-holiday-tree-lighting-ceremony>


Img 3346

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/scenes-from-the-castro-s-2016-holiday-tree-lighting-ceremony>


About 200 revelers of all ages gathered last night to help kick off
holiday merriment in the Castro.

<http://hoodline.com/2016/11/scenes-from-the-castro-s-2016-holiday-tree-lighting-ceremony>

Castro
 <http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/castro>


            Hoodline

About us

<http://hoodline.com/about> Company blog

<http://blog.hoodline.com/> Write for us

<http://hoodline.com/writing> Work with us

<http://hoodline.com/jobs> Contact us

<http://hoodline.com/contact> Terms of use

<http://hoodline.com/terms> Hoodline privacy policy

<https://ripple.co/privacy-policy/>


            Our products

News

<http://hoodline.com/> Send us a tip

<http://hoodline.com/tips/new>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Events

<http://hoodline.com/events> Submit an event

<http://hoodline.com/events/submissions/new>
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Neighborhood Kit

<http://hoodline.com/kit>


            Follow

Sign up <http://hoodline.com/signup> | Log in
<http://hoodline.com/login?return_to=%2F2016%2F06%2Fthey-re-here-they-re-queer-but-can-they-stay-the-state-of-youth-lgbtq-housing-in-san-francisco>

<https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/hoodline/id814699998>


            Neighborhoods we cover

Alamo Square

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/alamo-square> Bayview

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/bayview> Bernal Heights

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/bernal-heights> Castro

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/castro> Chinatown

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/chinatown> Civic Center

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/civic-center> Cole Valley

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/cole-valley> Cow Hollow

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/cow-hollow> Divisadero

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/divisadero> Dogpatch

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/dogpatch> Duboce Triangle

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/duboce-triangle> Embarcadero

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/embarcadero> Excelsior

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/excelsior> Fillmore

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/fillmore> Financial District

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/financial-district> Fisherman's Wharf

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/fishermans-wharf>
Glen Park

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/glen-park> Hayes Valley

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/hayes-valley> Ingleside

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/ingleside> Inner Richmond

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/inner-richmond> Inner Sunset

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/inner-sunset> Jackson Square

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/jackson-square> Japantown

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/japantown> Lake Shore

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lake-shore> Lower Haight

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-haight> Lower Nob Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-nob-hill> Lower Pac Heights

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-pac-heights> Marina

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/marina> Mid-Market

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mid-market> Mission

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mission> Nob Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/nob-hill> Noe Valley

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/noe-valley>
NoPa

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/nopa> North Beach

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/north-beach> Ocean Beach

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/ocean-beach> Outer Richmond

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/outer-richmond> Outer Sunset

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/outer-sunset> Pacific Heights

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/pacific-heights> Polk

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/polk> Potrero Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/potrero-hill> Russian Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/russian-hill> SoMa

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/soma> Telegraph Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/telegraph-hill> Tenderloin

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/tenderloin> Twin Peaks

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/twin-peaks> Union Square

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/union-square> Upper Haight

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/upper-haight> West Portal

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/west-portal>
Western Addition

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/western-addition>
Alamo Square

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/alamo-square> Bayview

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/bayview> Bernal Heights

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/bernal-heights> Castro

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/castro> Chinatown

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/chinatown> Civic Center

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/civic-center> Cole Valley

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/cole-valley> Cow Hollow

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/cow-hollow> Divisadero

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/divisadero> Dogpatch

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/dogpatch> Duboce Triangle

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/duboce-triangle> Embarcadero

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/embarcadero> Excelsior

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/excelsior> Fillmore

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/fillmore> Financial District

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/financial-district> Fisherman's Wharf

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/fishermans-wharf> Glen Park

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/glen-park> Hayes Valley

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/hayes-valley> Ingleside

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/ingleside> Inner Richmond

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/inner-richmond> Inner Sunset

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/inner-sunset> Jackson Square

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/jackson-square> Japantown

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/japantown> Lake Shore

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lake-shore> Lower Haight

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-haight> Lower Nob Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-nob-hill> Lower Pac Heights

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/lower-pac-heights> Marina

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/marina> Mid-Market

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mid-market> Mission

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/mission> Nob Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/nob-hill> Noe Valley

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/noe-valley> NoPa

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/nopa> North Beach

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/north-beach> Ocean Beach

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/ocean-beach> Outer Richmond

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/outer-richmond> Outer Sunset

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/outer-sunset> Pacific Heights

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/pacific-heights> Polk

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/polk> Potrero Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/potrero-hill> Russian Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/russian-hill> SoMa

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/soma> Telegraph Hill

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/telegraph-hill> Tenderloin

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/tenderloin> Twin Peaks

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/twin-peaks> Union Square

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/union-square> Upper Haight

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/upper-haight> West Portal

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/west-portal> Western Addition

<http://hoodline.com/neighborhoods/western-addition>

BESbswy
