
Mashable

  *

    <#>
  * MashableHeader_logo.v2.usHeader_logo.v2.us.dark

    <http://mashable.com/>
    Mashable Asia

    <http://mashable.com/2016/06/30/homeless-tribe/?geo=AS&utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-geo>
    Mashable Australia

    <http://mashable.com/2016/06/30/homeless-tribe/?geo=AU&utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-geo>
    Mashable France

    <http://mashable.france24.com/?ns_campaign=mashablefr&ns_source=mashnav>
    Mashable India

    <http://mashable.com/2016/06/30/homeless-tribe/?geo=IN&utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-geo>
    Mashable UK

    <http://mashable.com/2016/06/30/homeless-tribe/?geo=GB&utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-geo>

  * Sign in

    <http://mashable.com/login/>
  *

    <http://mashable.com/follow-mashable/>
      o Like
      o Follow <https://twitter.com/mashable>
      o
      o Follow <https://plus.google.com/+Mashable/auto>
      o
      o
        Mashable
      o
      o <http://feeds.mashable.com/Mashable>
        <http://mashable.com/subscriptions> see more  >
        <http://mashable.com/follow-mashable>
  * Search <http://mashable.com/search/>

  * Videos

    <http://mashable.com/videos/?utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-ch>
  * Social Media

    <http://mashable.com/social-media/?utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-ch>
  * Tech

    <http://mashable.com/tech/?utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-ch>
  * Business

    <http://mashable.com/business/?utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-ch>
  * Entertainment

    <http://mashable.com/entertainment/?utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-ch>
  * World

    <http://mashable.com/world/?utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-ch>
  * Lifestyle

    <http://mashable.com/lifestyle/?utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-ch>
  * Watercooler

    <http://mashable.com/watercooler/?utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-ch>
  * Shop

    <http://shop.mashable.com/?utm_source=mashable&utm_medium=nav>
  * More

    <#>
      o
          + Channels
          + Videos

            <http://mashable.com/videos/>
          + Social Media

            <http://mashable.com/social-media/>
          + Tech

            <http://mashable.com/tech/>
          + Business

            <http://mashable.com/business/>
          + Entertainment

            <http://mashable.com/entertainment/>
          + World

            <http://mashable.com/world/>
          + Lifestyle

            <http://mashable.com/lifestyle/>
          + Watercooler

            <http://mashable.com/watercooler/>
          + Shop

            <http://shop.mashable.com/?utm_source=mashable&utm_medium=nav>
      o
          + Company
          + About Us

            <http://mashable.com/about/>
          + Licensing & Reprints

            <http://www.wrightsmedia.com/sites/mashable/>
          + Archive

            <http://mashable.com/2015/>
          + Mashable Careers

            <http://mashable.com/careers/>
      o
          + Contact
          + Contact Us

            <http://mashable.com/contact-us/>
          + Submit News

            <http://mashable.com/submit/>
      o
          + Advertise
          + Advertise

            <http://mashable.com/advertise/>
      o
          + Legal
          + Privacy Policy

            <http://mashable.com/privacy/>
          + Terms of Use

            <http://mashable.com/terms/>
          + Cookie Policy

            <http://mashable.com/cookie-policy/>
      o
          + Apps
          + iPhone / iPad

            <https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/mashable/id910775754?mt=8>
          + Android

            <https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mashable.android.phoenix>
      o
          + Resources
          + Subscriptions

            <http://mashable.com/follow-mashable/>
      o
          + Sites
          + Mashable Shop

            <http://shop.mashable.com/?utm_source=mashable&utm_medium=nav>
          + Job Board

            <http://findjobs.mashable.com/>
          + Social Good Summit

            <http://mashable.com/sgs/>
  * Terms of Use

    <http://mashable.com/terms/>
  * Privacy

    <http://mashable.com/privacy/>
  * About Us

    <http://mashable.com/about/>

We're using cookies to improve your experience. Click Here to find out
more. <http://mashable.com/cookie-policy/>

  *

    <#>
  * MashableHeader_logo.v2.usHeader_logo.v2.us.dark

    <http://mashable.com/> Mashable Asia

    <http://mashable.com/2016/06/30/homeless-tribe/?geo=AS&utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-geo>
    Mashable Australia

    <http://mashable.com/2016/06/30/homeless-tribe/?geo=AU&utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-geo>
    Mashable France

    <http://mashable.france24.com/?ns_campaign=mashablefr&ns_source=mashnav>
    Mashable India

    <http://mashable.com/2016/06/30/homeless-tribe/?geo=IN&utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-geo>
    Mashable UK

    <http://mashable.com/2016/06/30/homeless-tribe/?geo=GB&utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-geo>

  * Sign in

    <http://mashable.com/login/>
  *

    <http://mashable.com/follow-mashable/>
      o Like
      o Follow <https://twitter.com/mashable>
      o
      o Follow <https://plus.google.com/+Mashable/auto>
      o
      o
        Mashable
      o
      o <http://feeds.mashable.com/Mashable>
        <http://mashable.com/subscriptions> see more  >
        <http://mashable.com/follow-mashable>
  * Search

    <http://mashable.com/search/>

  * Videos

    <http://mashable.com/videos/?utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-ch>
  * Social Media

    <http://mashable.com/social-media/?utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-ch>
  * Tech

    <http://mashable.com/tech/?utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-ch>
  * Business

    <http://mashable.com/business/?utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-ch>
  * Entertainment

    <http://mashable.com/entertainment/?utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-ch>
  * World

    <http://mashable.com/world/?utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-ch>
  * Lifestyle

    <http://mashable.com/lifestyle/?utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-ch>
  * Watercooler

    <http://mashable.com/watercooler/?utm_cid=mash-prod-nav-ch>
  * Shop

    <http://shop.mashable.com/?utm_source=mashable&utm_medium=nav>
  * More

    <#>
      o
          + Channels
          + Videos

            <http://mashable.com/videos/>
          + Social Media

            <http://mashable.com/social-media/>
          + Tech

            <http://mashable.com/tech/>
          + Business

            <http://mashable.com/business/>
          + Entertainment

            <http://mashable.com/entertainment/>
          + World

            <http://mashable.com/world/>
          + Lifestyle

            <http://mashable.com/lifestyle/>
          + Watercooler

            <http://mashable.com/watercooler/>
          + Shop

            <http://shop.mashable.com/?utm_source=mashable&utm_medium=nav>
      o
          + Company
          + About Us

            <http://mashable.com/about/>
          + Licensing & Reprints

            <http://www.wrightsmedia.com/sites/mashable/>
          + Archive

            <http://mashable.com/2015/>
          + Mashable Careers

            <http://mashable.com/careers/>
      o
          + Contact
          + Contact Us

            <http://mashable.com/contact-us/>
          + Submit News

            <http://mashable.com/submit/>
      o
          + Advertise
          + Advertise

            <http://mashable.com/advertise/>
      o
          + Legal
          + Privacy Policy

            <http://mashable.com/privacy/>
          + Terms of Use

            <http://mashable.com/terms/>
          + Cookie Policy

            <http://mashable.com/cookie-policy/>
      o
          + Apps
          + iPhone / iPad

            <https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/mashable/id910775754?mt=8>
          + Android

            <https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mashable.android.phoenix>
      o
          + Resources
          + Subscriptions

            <http://mashable.com/follow-mashable/>
      o
          + Sites
          + Mashable Shop

            <http://shop.mashable.com/?utm_source=mashable&utm_medium=nav>
          + Job Board

            <http://findjobs.mashable.com/>
          + Social Good Summit

            <http://mashable.com/sgs/>

Header_share_logo.v2 Mobile_logo <http://mashable.com/>
1.1k
Share on Facebook Share Tweet on Twitter Share Share
<whatsapp://send?text=To%20help%20the%20homeless%2C%20first%20think%20of%20them%20as%20part%20of%20your%20tribe%20http%3A%2F%2Fmashable.com%2F2016%2F06%2F30%2Fhomeless-tribe%2F%23.MybXRuYe05L>



World

Like Follow
<https://twitter.com/intent/follow?region=follow_link&screen_name=mashable&tw_p=followbutton&variant=2.0>
Follow <https://plus.google.com/+Mashable/auto>


  To help the homeless, first think of them as part of your tribe

/1.1k/
Shares
1.1k
Share on Facebook Share Tweet on Twitter Share Share
<whatsapp://send?text=To%20help%20the%20homeless%2C%20first%20think%20of%20them%20as%20part%20of%20your%20tribe%20http%3A%2F%2Fmashable.com%2F2016%2F06%2F30%2Fhomeless-tribe%2F%23.MybXRuYe05L>

What's This?

<#><#><#><#>
April Campbell and her dog Rocky, who live behind a Neiman Marcus near
Powell St. in San Francisco.
April Campbell and her dog Rocky, who live behind a Neiman Marcus near
Powell St. in San Francisco.

Image: josh edelson/AFP/Getty Images

2016%2f06%2f30%2ff1%2f201507140cheadshot_20.b2214.78bb0
<http://mashable.com/author/chris-taylor/>By Chris Taylor
<http://mashable.com/author/chris-taylor/>
Jun 30, 2016


    Opinion

<http://mashable.com/category/opinion>

Powell Street, just south of Union Square, is San Francisco's busiest
transit hub. Here tourists line up at the Cable Car terminus, eager to
get to Fisherman's Wharf, squinting up in surprise at the cold summer
fog streaming overhead, squinting down and frowning at their phones to
avoid the panhandlers.    

But regular commuters know the most shame-inducing section of Powell. It
is the long, wide entry tunnel where people sleep during the day,
huddled up against the walls, their faces buried in coats and other
makeshift blankets. On those walls, and sometimes on the floor and
ceiling, marketers have posted ill-advised wrap-around ads. 

SEE ALSO: What 6 survivors of homelessness want you to know
<http://mashable.com/2016/06/29/sf-homeless-project/>

ADVERTISEMENT

Most times when you encounter people who live on the streets, you can at
least look them in the eye, human to human. Express your sorrow, hand
them a dollar, hand them your leftovers. But in the tunnel there are no
eyes to connect with, just a gauntlet of sleeping forms. 

Above them, the giant ads scream at you to buy a $2,000 laptop, to watch
a meaningless movie, to play a blood-soaked video game. Order your
coffee via an app and you won't have to wait in line, the wall says —
oblivious to the line of people who can't afford beds to sleep in, let
alone coffee when they wake up. 

Walking down to the BART train you shudder, flush, grow angry at the
whole mess. You feel powerless to fix it, so you turn up your headphones
and focus your mind. /Just get through this. Just get home. /Then you
get a double-dose of guilt for having a home to go to. / /

In tunnels like this, little bits of San Francisco's soul die every day.
This is where the homeless become a "crisis" or a "problem" or a
"tragedy" to passers-by, instead of unique human beings like you — each
of whom has their own story, and needs a little help in changing the plot.

SEE ALSO: A young man rebounds from homelessness and drugs — with an
assist from soccer
<http://mashable.com/2016/06/29/sf-homeless-project-street-soccer/>

As part of the SF Homeless Project <https://sfhomelessproject.com/>, in
which 70 media organizations have united to spotlight the plight of the
city's worst-off from June 29 onwards, we at /Mashable/ have tried to
focus on the humanity at the core of the issue. The more we reported it,
the less we saw the homeless as a homogenous whole. 

Instead, we saw Philip Jones
<http://mashable.com/2016/06/29/sf-homeless-project-street-soccer/>, a
24-year-old footballer and recovering meth addict who slept on the
sidewalk until he turned his life around with the help of a group called
Street Soccer USA. We saw Charles Hardigree
<http://mashable.com/2016/06/29/sf-homeless-project/>, who slept in a
four-bedroom house and drove a minivan until unemployment and health
problems came calling at the same time — a perfect storm of homelessness. 

"It sucks to generalize people," said Mariah Holmes
<http://mashable.com/2016/06/29/sf-homeless-project/>, a young mom who
struggled to find housing because cheap motels looked askance at the
subsidies she received from the city. We couldn't agree more.  

SEE ALSO: The app that matches surplus food with the hungry
<http://mashable.com/2016/06/29/copia-app/>

For too long, the strong ties of society — the kind that allow us to see
each other as our brother's keeper rather than generalizing people —
have been disintegrating. In fact, they started to disintegrate in the
1970s and 1980s, right around the time the U.S. learned a new word:
homelessness.

In his excellent bestseller from earlier this year, simply
called /Tribe/, author Sebastian Junger faults civilian society for
failing war veterans in a similar fashion. 

They may mouth the words "thank you for your service," says Junger, "but
they still see vets as something apart from the whole, something other,
with experiences we can never understand, so why bother? They're
respected, but not really part of the tribe."

"Two of the behaviors that set early humans apart were the systematic
sharing of food and altruistic group defense," Junger writes. He continued:

    Other primates did very little of either but, increasingly, hominids
    did, and those behaviors helped set them on an evolutionary path
    that produced the modern world. The earliest and most basic
    definition of community — of tribe — would be the group of people
    that you would both help feed and help defend. 

    A society that doesn't offer its members the chance to act
    selflessly in these ways isn't a society in any tribal sense of the
    word; it's just a political entity that, lacking enemies, will
    probably fall apart on its own ... 

    Lack of social support has been found to be twice as reliable at
    predicting PTSD as the severity of the trauma itself. 

Clearly, society has taken this approach to the homeless too — often
meaning well, but still "other-izing" them. This process starts at the
very top, with a large and fast-growing body of laws that effectively
criminalize homelessness.

Even in supposedly enlightened California, a recent UC Berkeley Law
School study
<http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2558944> found 592
laws on the books in the state's 58 largest cities, or just over 10 laws
per city, that target homeless behavior. The number of anti-homeless
laws in these cities is growing by around 100 per decade.

Most ban sitting, lying down or sleeping in public places. But in 15
percent of the cities, laws have actually turned the most basic way we
can connect on a human level with the homeless — by offering our spare
food — into illegal behavior.

*SEE ALSO: **The app that matches surplus food with the hungry*
<http://mashable.com/2016/06/29/copia-app/>

And it isn't like the laws aren't being enforced, either. Quite the
opposite. "Arrests for general 'vagrancy' crimes — the status of being
homeless — have more than doubled since 2000," the report notes, "even
as enforcement of laws criminalizing specific behaviors like
'drunkenness' and 'disorderly conduct' has fallen."

In San Francisco, as we have seen most recently this year, there has
been a series of clueless opinions on homelessness shared by frustrated
tech entrepreneurs
<http://mashable.com/2016/02/19/homelessness-tech/#myY0TW7bDmqF>. They,
through poor choices of words, betray a sense of entitled anger that the
homeless even exist.

The irony being that these entrepreneurs think their apps are creating a
more connected society, when it's really their attitudes to their fellow
humans that are tearing its fabric apart.

An extremely connected society often emerges in the wake of an
earthquake, in a city under siege, or after a terror attack — like in
the United States after 9/11. Every time researchers have studied such
situations, they are shocked by the results. Crime drops. Suicide rates
plummet. The barriers between rich and poor vanish, at least until the
threat has passed.

SEE ALSO: Why are tech bros so clueless about the homeless?
<http://mashable.com/2016/02/19/homelessness-tech/>

If you're sleeping on the streets, at the end of your tether, afflicted
with diseases like depression or drug addiction, you desperately need
society to tell you still matter in some way. Instead, the entire legal
system is weighted against your ability to sleep and eat. 

Prejudice against whatever subsidies you're able to scrape out of the
local bureaucracy is allowed to run rampant. Making assumptions about an
"underclass" is just as insidious as generalizing about race. 

So before we start to fix the problem, we need to stop talking about it
as an abstract problem. Let's visualize it as exactly what it is: humans
having a long series of bad days, humans who need your helping hand
because they're part of your tribe, and because helping is what we do.

Let's all turn our faces away from the wall, and get our vision out of
the tunnel.

<#><#><#><#>

Topics: homeless <http://mashable.com/category/homeless/>, homelessness
<http://mashable.com/category/homelessness/>, Social Good
<http://mashable.com/category/social-good/>, World
<http://mashable.com/category/world/>

 
Sponsored Content

  *
    Enter Your Name, Wait 13 Seconds, "Brace Yourself". Enter Your Name,
    Wait 13 Seconds, "Brace Yourself". background checks: criminal,
    arrest, marriage/divorce, public records, court records
    <https://www.backgroundalert.com/pa/?tg_ref=bgaobran&camp_id=ad_id&keyword=keyword&sub2={origscid}&camp_id=69892960&keyword=Public+Records+Search&sub2=5473295>

  *
    Homeowners Must Claim their $4271 Before End of 2016. Homeowners
    Must Claim their $4271 Before End of 2016. FetchRate
    <https://www.fetcharate.com/pa/mortgage/?tg_ref=fetobran&csg_ref=tapa&keyword=ad_id&sub2=5473295&camp_id=ad_title&camp_id=67898727&keyword=New+Illinois+Home+Refinance+Plan+Banks+Don%27t+Wan&sub2=5473295>

  *
    You Need To Do This Every Time You Turn On Your Computer... You Need
    To Do This Every Time You Turn On Your Computer... Web Life Advice
    <http://track.globaltechadvice.com/66cc09b6-37f0-4cd4-82be-6414e2c4522b?source=5473295&ADID=1>


  *
    Tiny Device a Forefront of Technological Breakthrough (Shocking)
    Tiny Device a Forefront of Technological Breakthrough (Shocking) The
    Sovereign Investor
    <http://thesovereigninvestor.com/exclusives/missing-wall-street-poster-boy-releases-shocking-video/?z=513569>

  *
    Ever Wondered Why Hillary Clinton Doesn't Talk About Her Daughter
    Chelsea? Here’s Why Ever Wondered Why Hillary Clinton Doesn't Talk
    About Her Daughter Chelsea? Here’s Why Scribol
    <http://scribol.com/a/news-and-politics/politics/things-about-chelsea-clinton-that-hillary-and-bill-never-mention/?utm_source=Outbrain&utm_medium=CPC&utm_campaign=Chelsea_Clinton_Hidden_Facts_US_Desktop&utm_content=5473295>

  *
    Hillary Clinton Net Worth! – How Rich Is Hillary Clinton? Hillary
    Clinton Net Worth! – How Rich Is Hillary Clinton? Celebsio
    <http://celebsio.com/richest-politicians-in-the-us-2016/> 

  *
    12 Mysterious Photos That Can Not be Explained 12 Mysterious Photos
    That Can Not be Explained CyberBreeze
    <http://cyber-breeze.com/12-mysterious-photos-that-cannot-be-explained/?utm_content=225926&utm_source=Outbrain&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=OB-Mysterious&utm_term=5473295>

  *
    7 Steve Bannon Quotes That Confirm He Loves To Dog-Whistle The
    Alt-Right 7 Steve Bannon Quotes That Confirm He Loves To Dog-Whistle
    The Alt-Right Bustle
    <https://www.bustle.com/articles/195091-7-steve-bannon-quotes-that-confirm-he-loves-to-dog-whistle-the-alt-right?utm_source=outbrain&utm_medium=pro&utm_campaign=obmpubs&sr_source=lift_outbrain>

  *
    Beyond Insulin: New Treatments to Keep Blood Glucose Under Control
    Beyond Insulin: New Treatments to Keep Blood Glucose Under Control
    Healthgrades
    <https://healthguides.healthgrades.com/your-guide-to-treating-diabetes/beyond-insulin-new-treatments-to-keep-blood-glucose-under-control?did=t9_outrss1>


Recommended by<http://www.outbrain.com/what-is/default/en>


  Get our hottest stories delivered to your inbox.


      Sign up for Mashable Newsletters to get personalized updates on
      top stories and viral hits.

<http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/arctic-sea-ice-slow-growth/?utm_cid=a-rr-world>

World

<http://mashable.com/world/>


  Global warming gobbled up a piece of sea ice the size of Alaska and
  Texas combined

  <http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/arctic-sea-ice-slow-growth/?utm_cid=a-rr-world>


Andrew Freedman

Sea ice extent was nearly 1 million square miles below average at the
end of October.
*765* shares
<http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/arctic-sea-ice-slow-growth/> 6 hours ago
Share <javascript:void(0);> Tweet <javascript:void(0);> Share
<javascript:void(0);> Share <javascript:void(0);>

<http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/news-anchor-cannon-doodle/?utm_cid=a-rr-world>

Watercooler

<http://mashable.com/watercooler/>


  News anchor attempts to draw a cannon, draws something NSFW instead

  <http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/news-anchor-cannon-doodle/?utm_cid=a-rr-world>


Rebecca Brown

Don't play drawing games on live TV.
*1.9k* shares
<http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/news-anchor-cannon-doodle/> 9 hours ago
Share <javascript:void(0);> Tweet <javascript:void(0);> Share
<javascript:void(0);> Share <javascript:void(0);>

<http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/obama-talks-fake-news/?utm_cid=a-rr-world>
World

<http://mashable.com/world/>


  Fake news has gotten so bad Obama had to weigh in

  <http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/obama-talks-fake-news/?utm_cid=a-rr-world>


Marissa Wenzke

"We won't know what to fight for."
*1.7k* shares <http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/obama-talks-fake-news/> 7
hours ago
Share <javascript:void(0);> Tweet <javascript:void(0);> Share
<javascript:void(0);> Share <javascript:void(0);>

<http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/paris-hilton-donald-trump-election/?utm_cid=a-rr-world>

Entertainment

<http://mashable.com/entertainment/>


  Paris Hilton voted for Donald Trump, and her reasoning is not that hot

  <http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/paris-hilton-donald-trump-election/?utm_cid=a-rr-world>


Jerico Mandybur

Is that hot?
*874* shares
<http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/paris-hilton-donald-trump-election/> 6
hours ago
Share <javascript:void(0);> Tweet <javascript:void(0);> Share
<javascript:void(0);> Share <javascript:void(0);>

<http://adclick.g.doubleclick.net/pcs/click%253Fxai%253DAKAOjssoRd085DXPMvVSS80edk-x0L-CGvEGZpa8HtX24BSwPeGR4zrJKII8Y7EIAxmKBoVB0KPGjv5HwE5pGjxil8nUj08RsXsDnr40bnZ7SlI4xN2-Fgo0LYGh1Dku5MlgSp2OrVqYxV0FgqLeI46TC7OkirISL8nxbFlUpENWM48D9CAt9sCi6Nuobl8xNv0948T2O3JraOnuAO2662SpRbqWys6F8Q1Z2wsc7Xg%2526sig%253DCg0ArKJSzLzyPsCSzjr6EAE%2526urlfix%253D1%2526adurl%253Dhttp://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/trackclk/N763.150394.MASHABLE/B10507218.140456148%3Bdc_trk_aid%3D313473506%3Bdc_trk_cid%3D75858714%3Bdc_lat%3D%3Bdc_rdid%3D%3Btag_for_child_directed_treatment%3D%3Fhttp://mashable.com/2016/11/14/how-to-choose-vr-headset/%23Q_AWlKITWqqm>

Paid Content by Mattel ViewMaster

<http://adclick.g.doubleclick.net/pcs/click%253Fxai%253DAKAOjssoRd085DXPMvVSS80edk-x0L-CGvEGZpa8HtX24BSwPeGR4zrJKII8Y7EIAxmKBoVB0KPGjv5HwE5pGjxil8nUj08RsXsDnr40bnZ7SlI4xN2-Fgo0LYGh1Dku5MlgSp2OrVqYxV0FgqLeI46TC7OkirISL8nxbFlUpENWM48D9CAt9sCi6Nuobl8xNv0948T2O3JraOnuAO2662SpRbqWys6F8Q1Z2wsc7Xg%2526sig%253DCg0ArKJSzLzyPsCSzjr6EAE%2526urlfix%253D1%2526adurl%253Dhttp://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/trackclk/N763.150394.MASHABLE/B10507218.140456148%3Bdc_trk_aid%3D313473506%3Bdc_trk_cid%3D75858714%3Bdc_lat%3D%3Bdc_rdid%3D%3Btag_for_child_directed_treatment%3D%3Fhttp://mashable.com/2016/11/14/how-to-choose-vr-headset/%23Q_AWlKITWqqm>

How to choose the right VR headset
<http://adclick.g.doubleclick.net/pcs/click%253Fxai%253DAKAOjssoRd085DXPMvVSS80edk-x0L-CGvEGZpa8HtX24BSwPeGR4zrJKII8Y7EIAxmKBoVB0KPGjv5HwE5pGjxil8nUj08RsXsDnr40bnZ7SlI4xN2-Fgo0LYGh1Dku5MlgSp2OrVqYxV0FgqLeI46TC7OkirISL8nxbFlUpENWM48D9CAt9sCi6Nuobl8xNv0948T2O3JraOnuAO2662SpRbqWys6F8Q1Z2wsc7Xg%2526sig%253DCg0ArKJSzLzyPsCSzjr6EAE%2526urlfix%253D1%2526adurl%253Dhttp://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/trackclk/N763.150394.MASHABLE/B10507218.140456148%3Bdc_trk_aid%3D313473506%3Bdc_trk_cid%3D75858714%3Bdc_lat%3D%3Bdc_rdid%3D%3Btag_for_child_directed_treatment%3D%3Fhttp://mashable.com/2016/11/14/how-to-choose-vr-headset/%23Q_AWlKITWqqm>

*1.1k* shares
Share <javascript:void(0);> Tweet <javascript:void(0);> Share
<javascript:void(0);> Share <javascript:void(0);>

<http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/jon-stewart-reacts-trumps-election-cbs-this-morning/?utm_cid=a-rr-world>

Watercooler

<http://mashable.com/watercooler/>


  Jon Stewart says Trump is 'a reaction' to both Democrats and Republicans

  <http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/jon-stewart-reacts-trumps-election-cbs-this-morning/?utm_cid=a-rr-world>


Christina Careaga

Jon Stewart has spoken.
*1.3k* shares
<http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/jon-stewart-reacts-trumps-election-cbs-this-morning/>
9 hours ago
Share <javascript:void(0);> Tweet <javascript:void(0);> Share
<javascript:void(0);> Share <javascript:void(0);>

<http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/artist-stuffed-animal-paintings/?utm_cid=a-rr-world>

Watercooler

<http://mashable.com/watercooler/>


  These incredibly detailed paintings of stuffed animals will make you
  feel like a kid again

  <http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/artist-stuffed-animal-paintings/?utm_cid=a-rr-world>


Sophie Hirsh

My Little Pony has never looked this good.
*514* shares
<http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/artist-stuffed-animal-paintings/> 6
hours ago
Share <javascript:void(0);> Tweet <javascript:void(0);> Share
<javascript:void(0);> Share <javascript:void(0);>

<http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/ways-to-fight-muslim-registry/?utm_cid=a-rr-world>

Watercooler

<http://mashable.com/watercooler/>


  There's already a plan to fight Trump's Muslim registry, and it's
  brilliant

  <http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/ways-to-fight-muslim-registry/?utm_cid=a-rr-world>


Heather Dockray

Allies of the community are one step ahead of the president-elect.
*1.4k* shares
<http://mashable.com/2016/11/17/ways-to-fight-muslim-registry/> 7 hours ago
Share <javascript:void(0);> Tweet <javascript:void(0);> Share
<javascript:void(0);> Share <javascript:void(0);>

  * About Us

    <http://mashable.com/about/>
  * Jobs

    <http://findjobs.mashable.com/>
  * Advertise

    <http://mashable.com/advertise/>
  * Subscribe

    <http://mashable.com/2011/05/09/connect-with-mashable/>
  * Privacy

    <http://mashable.com/privacy/>
  * Terms

    <http://mashable.com/terms/>

  * <http://www.facebook.com/mashable/>
  * <https://twitter.com/mashable>
  * <https://plus.google.com/+Mashable>
  * <http://feeds.mashable.com/Mashable>
  * <http://pinterest.com/mashable/>
  * <http://www.youtube.com/user/mashable>
  * <http://www.stumbleupon.com/channel/Mashable>
  * <http://www.linkedin.com/today/mashable.com>

Mashable <http://mashable.com/> is a global, multi-platform media and
entertainment company. Powered by its own proprietary technology,
Mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment
content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe.

  * ©2005-2016 Mashable, Inc.
  * Reproduction without explicit permission is prohibited. All Rights
    Reserved.
  * Designed in collaboration with Code & Theory
    <http://www.codeandtheory.com/>

