Homepage <https://medium.com/>
Sign in / Sign up
<https://medium.com/m/signin?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40jugglerjer%2Ftug-at-your-readers-heartstrings-4632fbffc105>
Next story


        Patti Smith: Jefferson Airplane Ushered Us Through the Summer of
        Love

<https://medium.com/cuepoint/patti-smith-jefferson-airplane-ushered-us-through-the-summer-of-love-614348cc7e46?source=read_next_metabar----------43>
11

  * Share
  *
    11

  *
*

Go to the profile of Jeremy Lubin

<https://medium.com/@jugglerjer?source=post_header_lockup>
Jeremy Lubin
<https://medium.com/@jugglerjer?source=post_header_lockup>BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Jun 27

------------------------------------------------------------------------


  Tug at your readers’ heartstrings

Wake up, roll over, repeatedly thwack nightstand until iPhone meets
palm. Under cover of comforter and braced for the daily torrent of
timelines and feeds, I begin to scroll through the morning’s stories.
Families in Orlando
<https://medium.com/@HuffingtonPost/how-to-help-orlando-shooting-victims-and-their-families-b84c35701ffe#.nabrl7tnl>,
homelessness in San Francisco
<https://medium.com/on-ripple/i-spent-the-night-with-a-homeless-san-francisco-woman-6ac9f8d42650#.a8dgia3ln>,
hunger in Venezuela
<https://medium.com/medium-international/a-day-in-the-life-witnessing-venezuelas-crisis-15146ca96872#.dvih0c1od>,
refugees in Europe
<https://medium.com/@UNHCR/10-insights-about-the-syrian-refugee-crisis-five-years-on-e456953bdc96#.6obt4r5ol>
 — now more than ever, the news seems an endless stream of heartbreak
and struggle. I start my day haunted by the feeling that while I may be
well-informed, I’m woefully ineffective with all this new knowledge.

I’m not alone in a desire to take action when an inspiring story finds
me. People are increasingly eager to make an impact when the moment is
right and the ask is small
<http://business.time.com/2012/12/27/how-nonprofits-convince-millennials-to-give-customize-the-cause/>.
It’s well-proven that we humans enjoy increased happiness when we give
back <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0EJIaTFfBss#t=312>, and the rate
of online giving is skyrocketing
<http://www.networkforgood.com/nonprofitblog/how-giving-is-growing-online-the-latest-from-the-digital-giving-index/>.

Enter The Heartstrings Project <http://theheartstringsproject.com/>. For
anyone writing about important issues, here on Medium or elsewhere on
the web, a Heartstrings campaign gives readers a quick way to contribute
to a cause, starting with a donation to any registered non-profit and
without ever leaving the page.

If you’re so inclined, you can give it a try right here with a
contribution to the SF Community Housing Partnership
<http://www.chp-sf.org/> to help house the homeless of San Francisco:

Starting today with donations, I hope The Heartstrings Project inspires
us to collectively turn information overload into overwhelming impact.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

This Wednesday, June 29, is San Francisco’s Day of Homelessness
<https://twitter.com/bayareahomeless>, an initiative by the SF
Chronicle’s Editor-in-Chief Audrey Cooper
<http://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/16/us/san-francisco-homelessness.html?_r=0>.
If you’re planning a piece about homelessness and would like to embed a
campaign in your story, let me know at jeremy@theheartstringsproject.com
or sign up at http://theheartstringsproject.com
<http://theheartstringsproject.com/>.

/I am not taking any fees on donations made through The Heartstrings
Project, other than those charged by Stripe and Make My Donation,
without which the project would not be possible./

Nonprofit <https://medium.com/tag/nonprofit?source=post>San Francisco
<https://medium.com/tag/san-francisco?source=post>SFHomelessProject
<https://medium.com/tag/sfhomelessproject?source=post>Homeless
<https://medium.com/tag/homeless?source=post>Charity
<https://medium.com/tag/charity?source=post>
11
#
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Go to the profile of Jeremy Lubin

<https://medium.com/@jugglerjer?source=footer_card>


      Jeremy Lubin <https://medium.com/@jugglerjer>

<https://medium.com/highlighting-generosity/a-better-donation-experience-for-the-web-bebaad4ed589?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-44>
More from Jeremy Lubin
A Better Donation Experience for the Web

<https://medium.com/highlighting-generosity/a-better-donation-experience-for-the-web-bebaad4ed589?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-44>
Go to the profile of Jeremy Lubin

<https://medium.com/@jugglerjer>
Jeremy Lubin
<https://medium.com/@jugglerjer?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-44>
<https://amysmartgirls.com/caringtueday-sisters-margaret-5-and-charlotte-9-have-raised-over-14-000-for-charity-b9265ee91d4d?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Also tagged Charity
#GivingTueday: Sisters Margaret (5) and Charlotte (9), have raised over
$14,000 for charity

<https://amysmartgirls.com/caringtueday-sisters-margaret-5-and-charlotte-9-have-raised-over-14-000-for-charity-b9265ee91d4d?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Go to the profile of SmartGirls Staff

<https://amysmartgirls.com/@SmartGirlsStaff>
SmartGirls Staff
<https://amysmartgirls.com/@SmartGirlsStaff?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
5
<https://journal.thriveglobal.com/how-my-kids-inspire-me-to-fight-for-kids-around-the-world-scott-harrison-88ce3ab4cf72?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Also tagged Charity
Scott Harrison: How My Kids Inspire Me to Fight for Kids Around the World

<https://journal.thriveglobal.com/how-my-kids-inspire-me-to-fight-for-kids-around-the-world-scott-harrison-88ce3ab4cf72?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Go to the profile of Scott Harrison

<https://journal.thriveglobal.com/@scottharrison>
Scott Harrison
<https://journal.thriveglobal.com/@scottharrison?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
17
Responses
Write a response…
Unknown user
No responses yet
Show all responses

×

Don’t miss Jeremy Lubin’s next story
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Jeremy LubinJeremy Lubin
