KQED Menu

  *


      KQED News

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Menu

    <#>

  * KQED News Home

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs & Blogs

        <#>
      o News Fix

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Special Coverage

        <#>
      o Boomtown

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  *


      KQED News

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Home

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs <#> Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o News Fix

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o Boomtown

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go


  State of Health Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  * Living Healthy

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/category/living-healthy/>
  * Community Health

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/category/place-matters/>
  * Tests+Treatments

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/category/tests-treatments/>
  * Policy

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/category/policy/>
  * Obamacare

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/category/reform/>

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California

<https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>


  State of Health <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>

Search

<#search-container>
Skip to content

<#content>

  * Living Healthy

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/category/living-healthy/>
  * Community Health

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/category/place-matters/>
  * Tests+Treatments

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/category/tests-treatments/>
  * Policy

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/category/policy/>
  * Obamacare

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/category/reform/>

Search for:

Community Health
<https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/category/place-matters/>


  Turning Motel Rooms into a Recovery Ward for the Homeless

Roberto Arce, 47, at the men’s dorm at the Illumination Foundation
Recuperative Care iin Santa Fe Springs, Calif., on Friday, February 12,
2016. Arce, a Mexican native, will be at the dorm for 2 weeks after
suffering from heart failure.

Roberto Arce, 47, at the men’s dorm at the Illumination Foundation
Recuperative Care iin Santa Fe Springs, Calif., on Friday, February 12,
2016. Arce, a Mexican native, will be at the dorm for 2 weeks after
suffering from heart failure. (/Heidi de Marco/KHN/)

By David Gorn
Kaiser Health News <http://khn.org/>
June 27, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2016/06/27/turning-motel-rooms-into-a-recovery-ward-for-the-homeless/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2016/06/27/turning-motel-rooms-into-a-recovery-ward-for-the-homeless/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2016/06/27/turning-motel-rooms-into-a-recovery-ward-for-the-homeless/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2016/06/27/turning-motel-rooms-into-a-recovery-ward-for-the-homeless/?share=linkedin&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2016/06/27/turning-motel-rooms-into-a-recovery-ward-for-the-homeless/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2016/06/27/turning-motel-rooms-into-a-recovery-ward-for-the-homeless/?share=email&nb=1>
*

After someone has a health crisis and gets emergency medical care, the
patient is sent home to recover. But what if that person has no home?
The homeless can’t get well when they go back to the street, and they
end up cycling back into expensive hospitals and emergency rooms.

Now one program in Southern California has tackled that dilemma by
giving people just out of the hospital a place to heal – by turning
cheap motels into triage and recovery wards.

Just up the freeway from Disneyland, in the city of Buena Park in Orange
County, Paul Leon stands outside the beat-up remnant of a seedy motel.
Above him, a faded pink sign advertises the Coral Motel – whose rooms
back in its prime cost 35 bucks a night.

“This particular motel was going to be taken back by the city of Buena
Park,” Leon says, “because of the drugs, alcohol, prostitution at the
motel.”

The Coral Motel in Buena Park, Calif., used by the Illumination
Foundation Recuperative Care, serves as a respite for people needing a
place to recover after being discharged from the hospital.
The Coral Motel in Buena Park, Calif., used by the Illumination
Foundation Recuperative Care, serves as a respite for people needing a
place to recover after being discharged from the hospital. (Heidi de
Marco/KHN)

Leon had another idea. As a public health nurse in Orange County, he
proposed turning the motel lobby into a triage center and converting the
rooms into clean recovery facilities for homeless people recently
released from local hospitals.

Usually recuperative care centers are pricey to set up — but this, Leon
says, was just the opposite.

“The beauty of this, it’s the poor man’s recuperative,” Leon says.
“They’re not the Hyatt or the Hilton, but they do serve a purpose for
us. The costs to run it are much less.”

The motel recovery room costs about half as much as a hospital would,
that’s about $2,000 less per person for each day. In some ways, it’s
better than being at home, because it has a nurse on staff to help
supervise care and handle complications.

Elvin Quiñones is one of the patients staying at the Coral Motel. He
walks me across the motel parking lot so he can show off his previous
home -– a small white Datsun B210 sedan.

“I’ll show you my house,” he says, “it’s not very big.”* *

After Elvin Quiñones had gallbladder surgery, he didn’t have anywhere to
recover. He ended up at the motel used by the Illumination Foundation
Recuperative Care.
After Elvin Quiñones had gallbladder surgery, he didn’t have anywhere to
recover. He ended up at the motel used by the Illumination Foundation
Recuperative Care. (Heidi de Marco/KHN)

Quiñones is a solid guy, and it’s hard to picture him crammed in the car
along with his two dogs. In the days right after his gall bladder
operation, he had a bunch of medical gear, too.

“I’ll be honest, I was sleeping in front of Walmart, the 24-hour
Walmart, because they had a bathroom,” Quiñones says. “I still had a
tube stuck inside me that was draining, so I needed someplace where I
could empty out the drain.”

*/ /*Being homeless and helpless, he says, is “surreal.”

*/ /*“You think you’re going to wake up, and it’ll all be a nightmare.
And you wake up and it’s not,” he says. “It’s just the next day.”

A week after his medical release, the hospital called and helped place
him in the motel. Ginny Ripslinger is a nurse administrator at St.
Joseph’s Hospital in the city of Orange.

“This is a new model of care for Orange County,” she says.

Over and above any state payments from Medi-Cal, California’s health
care program for the poor, hospitals and health insurers are happy to
pony up some cash, she says. They save money by stabilizing these patients.

More than that, Ripslinger says, it’s just the right thing to do.

“We don’t want to discharge them to the street,” she says. “And there’s
an obligation on the hospitals to provide continuity of care and safe
discharges.”

While those homeless patients are recovering in the motel room over two
or three weeks, there’s a hidden benefit, Ripslinger says.

“You might say they’re a captured audience. We can then provide the
social services and the linkages to the community for stable housing and
get them in a protected environment,” she says.

Victor Ramirez, 61, uses his ventilator at the men’s dorm at the
Illumination Foundation Recuperative Care in Santa Fe Springs, Calif.
Victor Ramirez, 61, uses his ventilator at the men’s dorm at the
Illumination Foundation Recuperative Care in Santa Fe Springs, Calif.
(Heidi de Marco/KHN)

Leon launched the homeless services nonprofit called the Illumination
Foundation to help provide those community links and health services.

The foundation now has expanded the motel model of care to six sites in
four counties –- Orange, Los Angeles, Riverside, San Bernardino — and
Leon says he has been working with dozens of cities across the country
to establish similar models elsewhere.

“If you’re just starting and you don’t have a recuperative care
program,” Leon says, “one easy quick method is to use motels. They could
basically start within days to house some of the patients that are the
most vulnerable.”

Every city has a homeless problem, he adds, and every city has its own
version of the beat-up Coral Motel. It’s a rare opportunity, Leon says,
to turn two big problems into one solution.

Explore: Community Health
<https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/category/place-matters/>,
Homelessness <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/tag/homelessness/>,
News <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/tag/news/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2016/06/27/turning-motel-rooms-into-a-recovery-ward-for-the-homeless/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2016/06/27/turning-motel-rooms-into-a-recovery-ward-for-the-homeless/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2016/06/27/turning-motel-rooms-into-a-recovery-ward-for-the-homeless/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2016/06/27/turning-motel-rooms-into-a-recovery-ward-for-the-homeless/?share=linkedin&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2016/06/27/turning-motel-rooms-into-a-recovery-ward-for-the-homeless/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2016/06/27/turning-motel-rooms-into-a-recovery-ward-for-the-homeless/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

1 Comment
<http://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2016/06/27/turning-motel-rooms-into-a-recovery-ward-for-the-homeless/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related

Targeting and Healing Medi-Cal's Most Expensive Patients -- And Saving Money

<http://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2016/06/21/targeting-and-healing-medi-cals-most-expensive-patients-and-saving-money/>

Depressed Teen's Struggle to Find Mental Health Care in Rural California

<http://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2016/06/01/depressed-teens-struggle-to-find-mental-health-care-in-rural-california/>

Berkeley Physician Opens Practice Focusing on Aid-in-Dying

<http://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2016/06/02/berkeley-physician-opens-practice-focusing-on-aid-in-dying/>

San Diego's Methamphetamine Problem Strains Criminal Justice System

<http://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2016/07/12/san-diegos-methamphetamine-problem-strains-criminal-justice-system/>

California's Last Institutions for Developmentally Disabled to be Closed

<http://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2016/03/08/californias-last-institutions-for-developmentally-disabled-to-be-closed/>

How California's Mentally Ill Children Suffer -- Few Hospital Beds Statewide

<http://blogs.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2013/12/17/how-californias-mentally-ill-children-suffer-few-hospital-beds-statewide/>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


  State of Health Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>


  Post navigation

Prev Are Your Pipes Made Of Lead? Here's A Quick Way To Find Out

<https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2016/06/24/are-your-pipes-made-of-lead-heres-a-quick-way-to-find-out/>
Next California Surpasses National HIV Target -- 6 Years Early

<https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/2016/06/27/california-surpasses-national-hiv-target-6-years-early/>



  About State of Health

California faces health care challenges seen across the country. At a
time of intense focus on reform, "State of Health" explores these issues
and more, bringing you stories of challenge and change in the Golden
State. The blog is edited by Lisa Aliferis
<http://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/author/lisaaliferis/>.


  About KQED

  * About <http://www.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://www.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://www.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://www.kqed.org/about/help/index.jsp>


  Follow State of Health

  * Follow Us on Facebook <http://facebook.com/KQEDhealth>
  * Follow Us on Twitter <http://twitter.com/KQEDhealth>
  * Subscribe via RSS Feed <http://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/feed/>

Support for community health reporting, including Vital Signs, is
provided by The California Endowment <http://www.calendow.org/>.

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

[blank image]
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil
:)
