  * Home <http://kron4.com/>
  * News <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o Bay Area News <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o California News <http://kron4.com/category/news/california-news/>
      o DECISION 2016
        <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/election-2016/>
      o National <http://kron4.com/category/news/national/>
      o International <http://kron4.com/category/news/international/>
      o Politics <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/>
      o Strange <http://kron4.com/category/news/strange/>
      o Entertainment News <http://kron4.com/bitesizetv/>
      o MyKRON4Story <http://kron4.com/category/news/mykron4story/>
      o Our Team <http://kron4.com/category/news/kron4-news-team/>
  * Bay Area Weather <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>
      o Airport Delays <http://kron4.com/weather/airport-delays/>
      o Current Conditions <http://kron4.com/weather/current-conditions/>
      o Earthquakes <http://kron4.com/weather/earthquakes/>
      o Fire Danger <http://kron4.com/weather/fire-danger/>
      o Forecasts <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>
      o Live Cameras <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>
      o Rainfall Totals <http://kron4.com/weather/rainfall-totals/>
      o Satellite <http://kron4.com/weather/satellite/>
      o SatRad <http://kron4.com/weather/satrad/>
      o Weather Alerts <http://kron4.com/weather-alerts/>
  * Traffic <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
      o Live Cameras <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Traffic Conditions
        <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
  * Sports <http://kron4.com/category/sports/>
      o Gary’s World <http://kron4.com/category/sports/gary-radnich/>
      o San Francisco 49ers <http://kron4.com/category/sports/49ers/>
      o Oakland A’s <http://kron4.com/category/sports/as/>
      o Cal <http://kron4.com/category/sports/cal/>
      o Giants <http://kron4.com/category/sports/giants/>
      o Raiders <http://kron4.com/category/sports/raiders/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes
        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o Sharks <http://kron4.com/category/sports/sharks/>
      o Stanford <http://kron4.com/category/sports/stanford-sports/>
      o Warriors <http://kron4.com/category/sports/warriors/>
  * Features <http://kron4.com/category/features/>
      o Holidays 2016 <http://kron4.com/category/holidays-2016/>
      o New Year’s Live on KRON 4
        <http://kron4.com/category/new-years-live-on-kron-4/>
      o Bay Area Living <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/>
      o KRON 4 BackStory <http://kron4.com/category/kron-4-backstory/>
      o Dine & Dish <http://kron4.com/category/features/dine-dish/>
      o Family Fun <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/family-fun/>
      o KRON 4’s Teacher of the Week
        <http://kron4.com/kron-4s-teacher-of-the-week/>
      o Tech Trends <http://kron4.com/category/features/tech/>
      o People Behaving Badly
        <http://kron4.com/category/features/people-behaving-badly/>
  * KRON <http://kron4.com/category/kron/>
      o Jobs at KRON <http://kron4.com/category/kron/jobs-at-kron/>
      o Community <http://kron4.com/category/kron/community/>
      o Contests <http://kron4.com/category/kron/contests/>
      o Advertising Terms and Conditions
        <https://mgtvkron.files.wordpress.com/2014/12/young-broadcasting-advertising-ts-and-cs.pdf>
      o Advertise with KRON 4
        <http://kron4.com/category/advertise-with-kron/>
      o History of Bay Area
        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/25/tech-trends-history-of-bay-area-revived-through-remastering-old-news-film-footage/>
  * KRON 4 Live <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Live News Casts <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Second Screen Live Stream
        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/16/live-stream-kron4-news-second-screen/>
  * More <http://kron4.com/category/more/>
      o Report It! <http://kron4.com/report-it/>
      o Contact Us <http://kron4.com/contact-us/>
      o Television Schedule <http://kron4.com/television-schedule/>
      o Marketplace <http://kron4.com/category/marketplace/>
      o Closed Captioning Contact Info
        <http://kron4.com/closed-captioning-contact-information/>


  KRON4.com <http://kron4.com/>

Broken Clouds


      55° F

Broken Clouds

  * Hi: 58° F
  * Lo: 47° F

<http://kron4.com/category/weather>

  * San Francisco Bay Area Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>
  * Forecasts <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>
  * Bay Area Traffic Conditions
    <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>


Menu

Skip to content

<#content>  
Home

<http://kron4.com/>

  * News

    <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o Bay Area News

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o California News

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/california-news/>
      o DECISION 2016

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/election-2016/>
      o National

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/national/>
      o International

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/international/>
      o Politics

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/>
      o Strange

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/strange/>
      o Entertainment News

        <http://kron4.com/bitesizetv/>
      o MyKRON4Story

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/mykron4story/>
      o Our Team

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/kron4-news-team/>
  * Bay Area Weather

    <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>


          Bay Area Weather

      o Airport Delays <http://kron4.com/weather/airport-delays/>
      o Current Conditions <http://kron4.com/weather/current-conditions/>
      o Earthquakes <http://kron4.com/weather/earthquakes/>
      o Fire Danger <http://kron4.com/weather/fire-danger/>
      o Forecasts <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>
      o Live Cameras <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>
      o Rainfall Totals <http://kron4.com/weather/rainfall-totals/>
      o Satellite <http://kron4.com/weather/satellite/>
      o SatRad <http://kron4.com/weather/satrad/>
      o Weather Alerts <http://kron4.com/weather-alerts/>


          Current Conditions


          55° F

    Broken Clouds

      o Feels Like: 55° F
      o Wind: W 16
      o Humidity: 86%
      o Dewpoint: 51° F
      o Sunrise: 7:09 AM
      o Sunset: 4:50 PM

    <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>


          San Francisco Weather


    Forecast <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>

    Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>


    Currently <http://kron4.com/weather/current-conditions/>

    Live Cams <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>

    Sponsored by:

  * Traffic

    <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
      o Live Cameras

        <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Traffic Conditions

        <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
  * Sports

    <http://kron4.com/category/sports/>
      o Gary’s World

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/gary-radnich/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/49ers/>
      o Oakland A’s

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/as/>
      o Cal

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/cal/>
      o Giants

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/giants/>
      o Raiders

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/raiders/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o Sharks

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/sharks/>
      o Stanford

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/stanford-sports/>
      o Warriors

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/warriors/>
  * Features

    <http://kron4.com/category/features/>
      o Holidays 2016

        <http://kron4.com/category/holidays-2016/>
      o New Year’s Live on KRON 4

        <http://kron4.com/category/new-years-live-on-kron-4/>
      o Bay Area Living

        <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/>
      o KRON 4 BackStory

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron-4-backstory/>
      o Dine & Dish

        <http://kron4.com/category/features/dine-dish/>
      o Family Fun

        <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/family-fun/>
      o KRON 4’s Teacher of the Week

        <http://kron4.com/kron-4s-teacher-of-the-week/>
      o Tech Trends

        <http://kron4.com/category/features/tech/>
      o People Behaving Badly

        <http://kron4.com/category/features/people-behaving-badly/>
  * KRON

    <http://kron4.com/category/kron/>
      o Jobs at KRON

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron/jobs-at-kron/>
      o Community

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron/community/>
      o Contests

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron/contests/>
      o Advertising Terms and Conditions

        <https://mgtvkron.files.wordpress.com/2014/12/young-broadcasting-advertising-ts-and-cs.pdf>
      o Advertise with KRON 4

        <http://kron4.com/category/advertise-with-kron/>
      o History of Bay Area

        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/25/tech-trends-history-of-bay-area-revived-through-remastering-old-news-film-footage/>
  * KRON 4 Live

    <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Live News Casts

        <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Second Screen Live Stream

        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/16/live-stream-kron4-news-second-screen/>
  * More

    <http://kron4.com/category/more/>
      o Report It!

        <http://kron4.com/report-it/>
      o Contact Us

        <http://kron4.com/contact-us/>
      o Television Schedule

        <http://kron4.com/television-schedule/>
      o Marketplace

        <http://kron4.com/category/marketplace/>
      o Closed Captioning Contact Info

        <http://kron4.com/closed-captioning-contact-information/>

Search for:

Search the site <#>
Broken Clouds


      55° F

Broken Clouds

  * Hi: 58° F
  * Lo: 47° F

<http://kron4.com/category/weather>


  VIDEO: San Francisco opens second navigation center to help homeless
  find housing

By Brittany Brown, KRON <http://kron4.com/author/kron4brittanybrown/>
Published: June 28, 2016, 4:09 pm Updated: June 29, 2016, 9:07 am

  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/san-francisco-opens-second-navigation-center-to-help-homeless-find-housing/?share=twitter>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/san-francisco-opens-second-navigation-center-to-help-homeless-find-housing/?share=google-plus-1>
  * Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/san-francisco-opens-second-navigation-center-to-help-homeless-find-housing/?share=facebook>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/san-francisco-opens-second-navigation-center-to-help-homeless-find-housing/?share=pinterest>

File - In this Feb. 26, 2016, file photo, a city worker tells a homeless
man that the area next to him on is about to be power washed and points
to an area he might want to move in San Francisco. Media outlets in San
Francisco plan to saturate internet, broadcast and print publications
this week with news stories about an issue that has stumped politicians
and residents for decades: The city's homeless. Editors will concentrate
media coverage on Wednesday, June 29, 2016, although news groups also
plan stories throughout the week in an effort to inform residents and
spur action. (AP Photo/Eric Risberg, File)
File - In this Feb. 26, 2016, file photo, a city worker tells a homeless
man that the area next to him on is about to be power washed and points
to an area he might want to move in San Francisco. Media outlets in San
Francisco plan to saturate internet, broadcast and print publications
this week with news stories about an issue that has stumped politicians
and residents for decades: The city's homeless. Editors will concentrate
media coverage on Wednesday, June 29, 2016, although news groups also
plan stories throughout the week in an effort to inform residents and
spur action. (AP Photo/Eric Risberg, File)


      Related Coverage

  *


      KRON4 teams up with media outlets for San Francisco Homeless
      Project
      <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/kron4-teams-up-with-media-outlets-for-san-francisco-homeless-project/>

  *


      San Francisco media plan week of coverage on homeless crisis
      <http://kron4.com/ap/san-francisco-media-plan-week-of-coverage-on-homeless-crisis/>

  *


      Video: Bay Area woman goes from homeless to helping the homeless
      <http://kron4.com/2016/06/27/video-bay-area-woman-goes-from-homeless-to-helping-the-homeless/>

 

SAN FRANCISCO (KRON/BCN) — San Francisco’s second Navigation Center to
help homeless residents transition to permanent housing has opened up in
the city’s South of Market neighborhood.

This comes more than a year after city officials opened the first center.

During an opening ceremony this morning, Mayor Ed Lee helped welcome
formerly homeless residents to the new 93-bed center, located at the
Civic Center Hotel at 20 12th St.

Similar to the first Navigation Center, the new one will also accept
homeless residents, as well as their partners and pets, and provide them
with programs such as case management, employment services, health
services and as well as helping them finding permanent housing.

As of Tuesday morning, the new center had not reached full capacity and
still had room for 43 individuals, according to Gail Gilman, executive
director of the nonprofit Community Housing Partnership.

The building, which is owned by the UA Local 38 Plumbers Union Pension
Trust Fund, is only a temporary location for the center. The Civic
Center Hotel will be rebuilt in about two years at a new location about
a block away, Gilman said.

The future location will include 550 homes with 110 permanently
affordable homes for formerly homeless people as well as current
residents of the second Navigation Center.

The city first opened a Navigation Center in March 2015 at 1950 Mission
St. in the Mission District. Located on property owned by the San
Francisco Unified School District, the center is equipped with
dormitory-style rooms, dining, shower, bathroom and laundry facilities,
as well as counseling offices.

Since its opening, the first center has served about 550 clients.
Additionally, over 80 percent of clients who have left the center have
moved on to stable and supportive housing or have reunited with friends
and family, according to city officials.

The city is also planning on opening a third Navigation Center in the
city’s Dogpatch neighborhood sometime later this year, Kositsky said.

/Bay City News contributed to this report. /

Top News
Sponsored By:


      Oakland residents fearful after double homicide

An escalation in violence, including the double homicide of two childhood…

 
Powered By
<http://i.jsrdn.com/i/1.gif?r=36as&k=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&fwd=http%3A%2F%2Fdistroscale.com>



Share this:

  * Click to email (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/san-francisco-opens-second-navigation-center-to-help-homeless-find-housing/?share=email&nb=1>
  * More <#>
*

  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/san-francisco-opens-second-navigation-center-to-help-homeless-find-housing/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/san-francisco-opens-second-navigation-center-to-help-homeless-find-housing/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  *
  * Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/san-francisco-opens-second-navigation-center-to-help-homeless-find-housing/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/san-francisco-opens-second-navigation-center-to-help-homeless-find-housing/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  *
*


        Related Posts

homeless
<http://kron4.com/2016/11/27/395-winter-shelter-beds-available-to-homeless-in-santa-clara-county/>



  395 winter shelter beds available to homeless in Santa Clara County
  <http://kron4.com/2016/11/27/395-winter-shelter-beds-available-to-homeless-in-santa-clara-county/>

File - In this Feb. 26, 2016, file photo, a city worker tells a homeless
man that the area next to him on is about to be power washed and points
to an area he might want to move in San Francisco. Media outlets in San
Francisco plan to saturate internet, broadcast and print publications
this week with news stories about an issue that has stumped politicians
and residents for decades: The city's homeless. Editors will concentrate
media coverage on Wednesday, June 29, 2016, although news groups also
plan stories throughout the week in an effort to inform residents and
spur action. (AP Photo/Eric Risberg, File)
<http://kron4.com/2016/10/13/sf-homeless-unite-with-lgbt-community-to-protest-tent-ban/>



  SF Homeless unite with LGBT community to protest tent ban
  <http://kron4.com/2016/10/13/sf-homeless-unite-with-lgbt-community-to-protest-tent-ban/>

lam
<http://kron4.com/2016/11/02/suspects-in-2014-fatal-beating-of-homeless-man-in-san-francisco-plead-not-guilty/>



  Suspects in 2014 fatal beating of homeless man in San Francisco plead
  not guilty
  <http://kron4.com/2016/11/02/suspects-in-2014-fatal-beating-of-homeless-man-in-san-francisco-plead-not-guilty/>

vlcsnap-2016-11-23-15h46m52s222
<http://kron4.com/2016/11/23/video-bay-area-city-officials-provide-needy-with-thanksgiving-meals/>



  VIDEO: Bay Area city officials provide needy with Thanksgiving meals
  <http://kron4.com/2016/11/23/video-bay-area-city-officials-provide-needy-with-thanksgiving-meals/>

Advertisement

« Previous Story
<http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/elderly-woman-pushed-to-ground-robbed-in-bayview-district/>
— Next Story »
<http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/photos-deadly-california-wildfires-spark-debate-about-development/>

  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
by Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Sponsored Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
You May Like
Peter Millar
<https://www.petermillar.com/c/collegiate-apparel/school-finder?utm_source=Taboola&utm_medium=Sponsored+Content&utm_content=Loving+Looks&utm_campaign=TB+Collegiate&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>College
Football Fans Are Loving These LooksPeter Millar
<https://www.petermillar.com/c/collegiate-apparel/school-finder?utm_source=Taboola&utm_medium=Sponsored+Content&utm_content=Loving+Looks&utm_campaign=TB+Collegiate&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>
Undo
MIT Review | Elysium Health
<https://www.technologyreview.com/s/534636/the-anti-aging-pill/?utm_source=taboolaTechR&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=3NewCategoryHeadlines&utm_content=PaidContent&utm_term=&GA=attribution>Science
Fiction, Minus the Fiction: A New Theory of Aging from BostonMIT Review
| Elysium Health
<https://www.technologyreview.com/s/534636/the-anti-aging-pill/?utm_source=taboolaTechR&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=3NewCategoryHeadlines&utm_content=PaidContent&utm_term=&GA=attribution>
Undo
Trend Chaser
<http://www.trend-chaser.com/entertainment/happy-days-then-now/?dmc=a6a1&utm_source=tb&utm_medium=mediageneral-newskron4-tb&utm_term=%27Erin%27+From+Happy+Days+Looks+Like+Now+Is+Insane-https%3A%2F%2Fconsole.brax-cdn.com%2Fcreatives%2Fb86bbc0b-1fab-4ae3-9b34-fef78c1a7488%2Ferinm_happy_fc557df0f0212bfef5ab54015becdee2.600x500.png&utm_content=1401795797373458297&utm_campaign=420260-tb>'Erin'
From Happy Days Looks Like Now Is InsaneTrend Chaser
<http://www.trend-chaser.com/entertainment/happy-days-then-now/?dmc=a6a1&utm_source=tb&utm_medium=mediageneral-newskron4-tb&utm_term=%27Erin%27+From+Happy+Days+Looks+Like+Now+Is+Insane-https%3A%2F%2Fconsole.brax-cdn.com%2Fcreatives%2Fb86bbc0b-1fab-4ae3-9b34-fef78c1a7488%2Ferinm_happy_fc557df0f0212bfef5ab54015becdee2.600x500.png&utm_content=1401795797373458297&utm_campaign=420260-tb>
Undo
Scanguard Protection
<http://track.globaltechadvice.com/aec7ff68-efa6-4de4-8532-7a3f78f6e6aa?campaign=SG_TABOOLA_US_RON&source=mediageneral-newskron4&image=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F5583f16eb0d97343e1af10a8e63a56d0.jpg&header=Use+This+Trick+Every+Time+You+Turn+On+Your+PC%E2%80%A6.&ad=2>Use
This Trick Every Time You Turn On Your PC….Scanguard Protection
<http://track.globaltechadvice.com/aec7ff68-efa6-4de4-8532-7a3f78f6e6aa?campaign=SG_TABOOLA_US_RON&source=mediageneral-newskron4&image=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F5583f16eb0d97343e1af10a8e63a56d0.jpg&header=Use+This+Trick+Every+Time+You+Turn+On+Your+PC%E2%80%A6.&ad=2>
Undo
Definition
<http://definition.org/waltons-family-happened/?utm_source=Taboola&utm_medium=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_content=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F14b48556cc6b2980fb091a38158870dd.jpg&utm_campaign=DEF_US_D_Taboola_D33890>What
Erin From “The Waltons” Looks Like Now is InsaneDefinition
<http://definition.org/waltons-family-happened/?utm_source=Taboola&utm_medium=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_content=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F14b48556cc6b2980fb091a38158870dd.jpg&utm_campaign=DEF_US_D_Taboola_D33890>
Undo
Bloomberg
<http://www.bloomberg.com/news/videos/2016-09-21/the-engineer-who-made-panda-express-a-food-court-staple??cmpid=taboola.video>Video:
This Chinese Eatery is in Every Food Court, But Why?Bloomberg
<http://www.bloomberg.com/news/videos/2016-09-21/the-engineer-who-made-panda-express-a-food-court-staple??cmpid=taboola.video>
Undo
Show Comments

Advertisement


  2016 Holiday Gift Guide

  *
    Hatchimals is Gabe Slate's top kids tech toy for 2016.
    <http://kron4.com/2016/12/01/2016-holiday-gift-guide-top-25-hot-tech-toys-for-kids/>



      Holiday Gift Guide: Top 25 hot tech toys for kids
      <http://kron4.com/2016/12/01/2016-holiday-gift-guide-top-25-hot-tech-toys-for-kids/>

  *
    178260FE046C47178C0B7AA3EB490F98
    <http://kron4.com/2016/01/01/tech-trends-2016-tech-predictions-include-new-apple-gadgets-virtual-reality/>



      Tech Trends: 2016 tech predictions
      <http://kron4.com/2016/01/01/tech-trends-2016-tech-predictions-include-new-apple-gadgets-virtual-reality/>

  *
    1-Apple-Watch-
    <http://kron4.com/2015/12/30/tech-trends-best-of-tech-gadgets-2015/>


      Tech Trends: Best of tech gadgets 2015
      <http://kron4.com/2015/12/30/tech-trends-best-of-tech-gadgets-2015/>

  *
    drone post 2
    <http://kron4.com/2015/12/17/tech-trends-what-you-need-to-know-when-choosing-a-drone-as-a-holiday-gift/>



      Tech Trends: Choosing a drone as a holiday gift
      <http://kron4.com/2015/12/17/tech-trends-what-you-need-to-know-when-choosing-a-drone-as-a-holiday-gift/>


  Trending on KRON4.com


  More Bay Area News

  *
    donna-kellogg
    <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/ghost-ship-fire-victims-talks-to-kron4/>


      “Ghost Ship” fire victim’s ex-boyfriend talks to KRON4
      <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/ghost-ship-fire-victims-talks-to-kron4/>

  *
    memorial_3
    <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/memorial-near-warehouse-for-oakland-fire-victims/>



      Memorial near warehouse for Oakland fire victims
      <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/memorial-near-warehouse-for-oakland-fire-victims/>

  *
    noel-gallo
    <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/video-oakland-city-councilman-speaks-about-deadly-warehouse-fire/>



      VIDEO: Oakland city councilman speaks about deadly warehouse fire
      <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/video-oakland-city-councilman-speaks-about-deadly-warehouse-fire/>

  *
    460x-18
    <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/criminal-investigation-underway-in-oakland-warehouse-fire/>



      Criminal investigation underway in Oakland warehouse fire
      <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/criminal-investigation-underway-in-oakland-warehouse-fire/>


  KRON Resource Links

KRON Links <http://kron4.com/category/news/news-links/> *KRON LINKS*
<http://kron4.com/category/news/news-links/> as mentioned on KRON News
KRON Weather <http://kron4.com/category/weather/> *Bay Area Weather*
<http://kron4.com/category/weather/>
KRON Report <http://kron4.com/contact-us/> *Report It!*
<http://kron4.com/contact-us/> Submit a tip to KRON
KRON 4 App Get KRON 4 App [*iPhone/iPad*
<https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/kron-4/id472672814?mt=8>] [*Android*
<https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.linmedia.newstouch.ksnw>]


<http://kron4.com/category/advertise-with-kron/>

Advertisement

Advertisement

Advertisement


    KRON4.com <http://kron4.com/>

© Copyright 2000 - 2016 Young Broadcasting of San Francisco, Inc. A
Media General Company.

Powered by WordPress.com VIP
<https://vip.wordpress.com/?utm_source=vip_powered_wpcom&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=VIP%20Footer%20Credit>


      Sections

  * News <http://kron4.com/category/news/>
  * San Francisco Bay Area Weather <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>
  * Traffic <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
  * Sports <http://kron4.com/category/sports/>
  * Features <http://kron4.com/category/features/>


      Station

  * Contact Us <http://kron4.com/contact-us/>
  * Television Schedule <http://kron4.com/television-schedule/>
  * Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KRON4>
  * Twitter <https://twitter.com/kron4news>


      Business

  * Terms of Use <http://kron4.com/terms-of-use/>
  * FCC Public File <https://publicfiles.fcc.gov/tv-profile/kron-tv>
  * EEO Report
    <https://publicfiles.fcc.gov/tv-profile/kron-tv/equal-employment-opportunity-records/additional-documents/eeo-public-file-reports/f7008eea-d138-0cca-830a-8cfa91a32037/>
  * Children’s Programming
    <https://publicfiles.fcc.gov/tv-profile/kron-tv/programs-list/>
  * Closed Captioning Contact Information
    <http://kron4.com/closed-captioning-contact-information/>
  * Media General <http://mediageneral.com/>


      Follow

  * Subscribe via RSS <http://kron4.com/feed/>
  * Follow us on Twitter <https://twitter.com/kron4news>
  * Join us on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KRON4>
  * Follow us on YouTube <https://www.youtube.com/user/kron4tv>
  * Follow us on Google+ <https://plus.google.com/+kron4tv>
  * Follow us on Pinterest <https://pinterest.com/kron4tv>
  * Follow us on Instagram <https://instagram.com/kron4tv>

<#>
LIVE STREAM:
KRON4 News at 8 PM
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

:)
