  * Home <http://kron4.com/>
  * News <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o Bay Area News <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o California News <http://kron4.com/category/news/california-news/>
      o DECISION 2016
        <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/election-2016/>
      o National <http://kron4.com/category/news/national/>
      o International <http://kron4.com/category/news/international/>
      o Politics <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/>
      o Strange <http://kron4.com/category/news/strange/>
      o Entertainment News <http://kron4.com/bitesizetv/>
      o MyKRON4Story <http://kron4.com/category/news/mykron4story/>
      o Our Team <http://kron4.com/category/news/kron4-news-team/>
  * Bay Area Weather <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>
      o Airport Delays <http://kron4.com/weather/airport-delays/>
      o Current Conditions <http://kron4.com/weather/current-conditions/>
      o Earthquakes <http://kron4.com/weather/earthquakes/>
      o Fire Danger <http://kron4.com/weather/fire-danger/>
      o Forecasts <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>
      o Live Cameras <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>
      o Rainfall Totals <http://kron4.com/weather/rainfall-totals/>
      o Satellite <http://kron4.com/weather/satellite/>
      o SatRad <http://kron4.com/weather/satrad/>
      o Weather Alerts <http://kron4.com/weather-alerts/>
  * Traffic <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
      o Live Cameras <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Traffic Conditions
        <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
  * Sports <http://kron4.com/category/sports/>
      o Gary’s World <http://kron4.com/category/sports/gary-radnich/>
      o San Francisco 49ers <http://kron4.com/category/sports/49ers/>
      o Oakland A’s <http://kron4.com/category/sports/as/>
      o Cal <http://kron4.com/category/sports/cal/>
      o Giants <http://kron4.com/category/sports/giants/>
      o Raiders <http://kron4.com/category/sports/raiders/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes
        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o Sharks <http://kron4.com/category/sports/sharks/>
      o Stanford <http://kron4.com/category/sports/stanford-sports/>
      o Warriors <http://kron4.com/category/sports/warriors/>
  * Features <http://kron4.com/category/features/>
      o Holidays 2016 <http://kron4.com/category/holidays-2016/>
      o New Year’s Live on KRON 4
        <http://kron4.com/category/new-years-live-on-kron-4/>
      o Bay Area Living <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/>
      o KRON 4 BackStory <http://kron4.com/category/kron-4-backstory/>
      o Dine & Dish <http://kron4.com/category/features/dine-dish/>
      o Family Fun <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/family-fun/>
      o KRON 4’s Teacher of the Week
        <http://kron4.com/kron-4s-teacher-of-the-week/>
      o Tech Trends <http://kron4.com/category/features/tech/>
      o People Behaving Badly
        <http://kron4.com/category/features/people-behaving-badly/>
  * KRON <http://kron4.com/category/kron/>
      o Jobs at KRON <http://kron4.com/category/kron/jobs-at-kron/>
      o Community <http://kron4.com/category/kron/community/>
      o Contests <http://kron4.com/category/kron/contests/>
      o Advertising Terms and Conditions
        <https://mgtvkron.files.wordpress.com/2014/12/young-broadcasting-advertising-ts-and-cs.pdf>
      o Advertise with KRON 4
        <http://kron4.com/category/advertise-with-kron/>
      o History of Bay Area
        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/25/tech-trends-history-of-bay-area-revived-through-remastering-old-news-film-footage/>
  * KRON 4 Live <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Live News Casts <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Second Screen Live Stream
        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/16/live-stream-kron4-news-second-screen/>
  * More <http://kron4.com/category/more/>
      o Report It! <http://kron4.com/report-it/>
      o Contact Us <http://kron4.com/contact-us/>
      o Television Schedule <http://kron4.com/television-schedule/>
      o Marketplace <http://kron4.com/category/marketplace/>
      o Closed Captioning Contact Info
        <http://kron4.com/closed-captioning-contact-information/>


  KRON4.com <http://kron4.com/>

Broken Clouds


      55° F

Broken Clouds

  * Hi: 58° F
  * Lo: 47° F

<http://kron4.com/category/weather>

  * San Francisco Bay Area Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>
  * Forecasts <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>
  * Bay Area Traffic Conditions
    <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>


Menu

Skip to content

<#content>  
Home

<http://kron4.com/>

  * News

    <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o Bay Area News

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o California News

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/california-news/>
      o DECISION 2016

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/election-2016/>
      o National

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/national/>
      o International

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/international/>
      o Politics

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/>
      o Strange

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/strange/>
      o Entertainment News

        <http://kron4.com/bitesizetv/>
      o MyKRON4Story

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/mykron4story/>
      o Our Team

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/kron4-news-team/>
  * Bay Area Weather

    <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>


          Bay Area Weather

      o Airport Delays <http://kron4.com/weather/airport-delays/>
      o Current Conditions <http://kron4.com/weather/current-conditions/>
      o Earthquakes <http://kron4.com/weather/earthquakes/>
      o Fire Danger <http://kron4.com/weather/fire-danger/>
      o Forecasts <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>
      o Live Cameras <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>
      o Rainfall Totals <http://kron4.com/weather/rainfall-totals/>
      o Satellite <http://kron4.com/weather/satellite/>
      o SatRad <http://kron4.com/weather/satrad/>
      o Weather Alerts <http://kron4.com/weather-alerts/>


          Current Conditions


          55° F

    Broken Clouds

      o Feels Like: 55° F
      o Wind: W 16
      o Humidity: 86%
      o Dewpoint: 51° F
      o Sunrise: 7:09 AM
      o Sunset: 4:50 PM

    <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>


          San Francisco Weather


    Forecast <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>

    Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>


    Currently <http://kron4.com/weather/current-conditions/>

    Live Cams <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>

    Sponsored by:

  * Traffic

    <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
      o Live Cameras

        <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Traffic Conditions

        <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
  * Sports

    <http://kron4.com/category/sports/>
      o Gary’s World

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/gary-radnich/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/49ers/>
      o Oakland A’s

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/as/>
      o Cal

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/cal/>
      o Giants

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/giants/>
      o Raiders

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/raiders/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o Sharks

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/sharks/>
      o Stanford

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/stanford-sports/>
      o Warriors

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/warriors/>
  * Features

    <http://kron4.com/category/features/>
      o Holidays 2016

        <http://kron4.com/category/holidays-2016/>
      o New Year’s Live on KRON 4

        <http://kron4.com/category/new-years-live-on-kron-4/>
      o Bay Area Living

        <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/>
      o KRON 4 BackStory

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron-4-backstory/>
      o Dine & Dish

        <http://kron4.com/category/features/dine-dish/>
      o Family Fun

        <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/family-fun/>
      o KRON 4’s Teacher of the Week

        <http://kron4.com/kron-4s-teacher-of-the-week/>
      o Tech Trends

        <http://kron4.com/category/features/tech/>
      o People Behaving Badly

        <http://kron4.com/category/features/people-behaving-badly/>
  * KRON

    <http://kron4.com/category/kron/>
      o Jobs at KRON

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron/jobs-at-kron/>
      o Community

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron/community/>
      o Contests

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron/contests/>
      o Advertising Terms and Conditions

        <https://mgtvkron.files.wordpress.com/2014/12/young-broadcasting-advertising-ts-and-cs.pdf>
      o Advertise with KRON 4

        <http://kron4.com/category/advertise-with-kron/>
      o History of Bay Area

        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/25/tech-trends-history-of-bay-area-revived-through-remastering-old-news-film-footage/>
  * KRON 4 Live

    <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Live News Casts

        <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Second Screen Live Stream

        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/16/live-stream-kron4-news-second-screen/>
  * More

    <http://kron4.com/category/more/>
      o Report It!

        <http://kron4.com/report-it/>
      o Contact Us

        <http://kron4.com/contact-us/>
      o Television Schedule

        <http://kron4.com/television-schedule/>
      o Marketplace

        <http://kron4.com/category/marketplace/>
      o Closed Captioning Contact Info

        <http://kron4.com/closed-captioning-contact-information/>

Search for:

Search the site <#>
Broken Clouds


      55° F

Broken Clouds

  * Hi: 58° F
  * Lo: 47° F

<http://kron4.com/category/weather>


  Video: What’s being done to help the homeless in Santa Clara County

By Vince Cestone, KRON <http://kron4.com/author/cestonev/> and Rob
Fladeboe <http://kron4.com/author/rob-fladeboe/> Published: June 29,
2016, 5:01 pm

  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/video-whats-being-done-to-help-the-homeless-in-santa-clara-county/?share=twitter>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/video-whats-being-done-to-help-the-homeless-in-santa-clara-county/?share=google-plus-1>
  * Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/video-whats-being-done-to-help-the-homeless-in-santa-clara-county/?share=facebook>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/video-whats-being-done-to-help-the-homeless-in-santa-clara-county/?share=pinterest>

vlcsnap-2016-06-29-16h53m48s180


      Related Coverage

  *


      SF proposed ballot measure to tax large tech companies to fund
      homeless
      <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/sf-proposed-ballot-measure-to-tax-large-tech-companies-to-fund-homeless/>

  *


      VIDEO: San Francisco opens second navigation center to help
      homeless find housing
      <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/san-francisco-opens-second-navigation-center-to-help-homeless-find-housing/>

  *


      KRON4 teams up with media outlets for San Francisco Homeless
      Project
      <http://kron4.com/2016/06/28/kron4-teams-up-with-media-outlets-for-san-francisco-homeless-project/>

 

SAN JOSE (KRON) — It is not just San Francisco.

Homelessness has reached epidemic proportions across the Bay Area.

KRON’s Rob Fladeboe takes a look at what is being done to help the
homeless in Santa Clara County.

Home First CEO Andrea Urton was all smiles, as she chatted with one of
the homeless people having lunch Wednesday at the Boccardo Reception
Center, but she said homelessness is nothing less than a crisis.

The largest provider of homeless support services in Santa Clara County
is Home First

It provides daily food and shelter to 250 people in the summer, and 350
in the winter. But it is by no means the only help out there.

In a marathon session Tuesday, the San Jose City Council approved a
162-unit complex for the chronically homeless on Senter Road and
extended a policy that allows churches to house homeless people without
a permit.

There is also a new effort to find housing for homeless veterans.

The question now is — is it working? Is it helping? There has been a 14
percent decrease in the overall numbers in recent years but an increase
in female homelessness, attributed to domestic violence and single
household mothers who can’t afford to pay their rent.

Top News
Sponsored By:


      Oakland residents fearful after double homicide

An escalation in violence, including the double homicide of two childhood…

 
Powered By
<http://i.jsrdn.com/i/1.gif?r=no6x&k=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&fwd=http%3A%2F%2Fdistroscale.com>



Share this:

  * Click to email (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/video-whats-being-done-to-help-the-homeless-in-santa-clara-county/?share=email&nb=1>
  * More <#>
*

  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/video-whats-being-done-to-help-the-homeless-in-santa-clara-county/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/video-whats-being-done-to-help-the-homeless-in-santa-clara-county/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  *
  * Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/video-whats-being-done-to-help-the-homeless-in-santa-clara-county/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/video-whats-being-done-to-help-the-homeless-in-santa-clara-county/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  *
*


        Related Posts

81d0f016da8e477181421caea8032fbf
<http://kron4.com/2016/11/11/video-more-than-500-santa-clara-county-veterans-find-homes-through-campaign-started-1-year-ago/>



  VIDEO: More than 500 Santa Clara County veterans find homes through
  campaign started 1 year ago
  <http://kron4.com/2016/11/11/video-more-than-500-santa-clara-county-veterans-find-homes-through-campaign-started-1-year-ago/>

homeless
<http://kron4.com/2016/11/27/395-winter-shelter-beds-available-to-homeless-in-santa-clara-county/>



  395 winter shelter beds available to homeless in Santa Clara County
  <http://kron4.com/2016/11/27/395-winter-shelter-beds-available-to-homeless-in-santa-clara-county/>

generic-gavel-_law_court_legal
<http://kron4.com/2016/10/11/san-jose-woman-sentenced-for-scamming-750k-in-real-estate-fraud-that-left-family-homeless/>



  San Jose woman sentenced for scamming $750K in real estate fraud that
  left family homeless
  <http://kron4.com/2016/10/11/san-jose-woman-sentenced-for-scamming-750k-in-real-estate-fraud-that-left-family-homeless/>

File - In this Feb. 26, 2016, file photo, a city worker tells a homeless
man that the area next to him on is about to be power washed and points
to an area he might want to move in San Francisco. Media outlets in San
Francisco plan to saturate internet, broadcast and print publications
this week with news stories about an issue that has stumped politicians
and residents for decades: The city's homeless. Editors will concentrate
media coverage on Wednesday, June 29, 2016, although news groups also
plan stories throughout the week in an effort to inform residents and
spur action. (AP Photo/Eric Risberg, File)
<http://kron4.com/2016/10/13/sf-homeless-unite-with-lgbt-community-to-protest-tent-ban/>



  SF Homeless unite with LGBT community to protest tent ban
  <http://kron4.com/2016/10/13/sf-homeless-unite-with-lgbt-community-to-protest-tent-ban/>

Advertisement

« Previous Story
<http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/teen-girl-fatally-struck-by-car-in-oakley-identified/>
— Next Story »
<http://kron4.com/2016/06/29/fairfield-man-shot-in-head-in-may-dies-in-hospital/>

  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
by Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Sponsored Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
You May Like
Home Chef
<https://www.homechef.com/skip-the-store?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=cpc_clicks&utm_campaign=tab.30.1&voucher=TB30FREE&utm_content=%24%7Bcity%3Acapitalized%7D%24%3A+This+Meal+Service+is+Cheaper+Than+Your+Local+Store-http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F9478e09fee5e45ed1216b9ddcc24cc80.png&utm_term=mediageneral-newskron4>Stanford:
This Meal Service is Cheaper Than Your Local StoreHome Chef
<https://www.homechef.com/skip-the-store?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=cpc_clicks&utm_campaign=tab.30.1&voucher=TB30FREE&utm_content=%24%7Bcity%3Acapitalized%7D%24%3A+This+Meal+Service+is+Cheaper+Than+Your+Local+Store-http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F9478e09fee5e45ed1216b9ddcc24cc80.png&utm_term=mediageneral-newskron4>
Undo
MIT Review | Elysium Health
<https://www.technologyreview.com/s/534636/the-anti-aging-pill/?utm_source=taboolaTechR&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=3NewCategoryHeadlines&utm_content=PaidContent&utm_term=&GA=attribution>Science
Fiction, Minus the Fiction: A New Theory of Aging from BostonMIT Review
| Elysium Health
<https://www.technologyreview.com/s/534636/the-anti-aging-pill/?utm_source=taboolaTechR&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=3NewCategoryHeadlines&utm_content=PaidContent&utm_term=&GA=attribution>
Undo
Trend Chaser
<http://www.trend-chaser.com/entertainment/happy-days-then-now/?dmc=a6a1&utm_source=tb&utm_medium=mediageneral-newskron4-tb&utm_term=%27Erin%27+From+Happy+Days+Looks+Like+Now+Is+Insane-https%3A%2F%2Fconsole.brax-cdn.com%2Fcreatives%2Fb86bbc0b-1fab-4ae3-9b34-fef78c1a7488%2Ferinm_happy_fc557df0f0212bfef5ab54015becdee2.600x500.png&utm_content=1401795797373458297&utm_campaign=420260-tb>'Erin'
From Happy Days Looks Like Now Is InsaneTrend Chaser
<http://www.trend-chaser.com/entertainment/happy-days-then-now/?dmc=a6a1&utm_source=tb&utm_medium=mediageneral-newskron4-tb&utm_term=%27Erin%27+From+Happy+Days+Looks+Like+Now+Is+Insane-https%3A%2F%2Fconsole.brax-cdn.com%2Fcreatives%2Fb86bbc0b-1fab-4ae3-9b34-fef78c1a7488%2Ferinm_happy_fc557df0f0212bfef5ab54015becdee2.600x500.png&utm_content=1401795797373458297&utm_campaign=420260-tb>
Undo
Scanguard Protection
<http://track.globaltechadvice.com/aec7ff68-efa6-4de4-8532-7a3f78f6e6aa?campaign=SG_TABOOLA_US_RON&source=mediageneral-newskron4&image=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F5583f16eb0d97343e1af10a8e63a56d0.jpg&header=Use+This+Trick+Every+Time+You+Turn+On+Your+PC%E2%80%A6.&ad=2>Use
This Trick Every Time You Turn On Your PC….Scanguard Protection
<http://track.globaltechadvice.com/aec7ff68-efa6-4de4-8532-7a3f78f6e6aa?campaign=SG_TABOOLA_US_RON&source=mediageneral-newskron4&image=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F5583f16eb0d97343e1af10a8e63a56d0.jpg&header=Use+This+Trick+Every+Time+You+Turn+On+Your+PC%E2%80%A6.&ad=2>
Undo
Definition
<http://definition.org/waltons-family-happened/?utm_source=Taboola&utm_medium=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_content=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F14b48556cc6b2980fb091a38158870dd.jpg&utm_campaign=DEF_US_D_Taboola_D33890>What
Erin From “The Waltons” Looks Like Now is InsaneDefinition
<http://definition.org/waltons-family-happened/?utm_source=Taboola&utm_medium=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_content=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F14b48556cc6b2980fb091a38158870dd.jpg&utm_campaign=DEF_US_D_Taboola_D33890>
Undo
Bloomberg
<http://www.bloomberg.com/news/videos/2016-09-21/the-engineer-who-made-panda-express-a-food-court-staple??cmpid=taboola.video>Video:
This Chinese Eatery is in Every Food Court, But Why?Bloomberg
<http://www.bloomberg.com/news/videos/2016-09-21/the-engineer-who-made-panda-express-a-food-court-staple??cmpid=taboola.video>
Undo
Show Comments

Advertisement


  2016 Holiday Gift Guide

  *
    Hatchimals is Gabe Slate's top kids tech toy for 2016.
    <http://kron4.com/2016/12/01/2016-holiday-gift-guide-top-25-hot-tech-toys-for-kids/>



      Holiday Gift Guide: Top 25 hot tech toys for kids
      <http://kron4.com/2016/12/01/2016-holiday-gift-guide-top-25-hot-tech-toys-for-kids/>

  *
    178260FE046C47178C0B7AA3EB490F98
    <http://kron4.com/2016/01/01/tech-trends-2016-tech-predictions-include-new-apple-gadgets-virtual-reality/>



      Tech Trends: 2016 tech predictions
      <http://kron4.com/2016/01/01/tech-trends-2016-tech-predictions-include-new-apple-gadgets-virtual-reality/>

  *
    1-Apple-Watch-
    <http://kron4.com/2015/12/30/tech-trends-best-of-tech-gadgets-2015/>


      Tech Trends: Best of tech gadgets 2015
      <http://kron4.com/2015/12/30/tech-trends-best-of-tech-gadgets-2015/>

  *
    drone post 2
    <http://kron4.com/2015/12/17/tech-trends-what-you-need-to-know-when-choosing-a-drone-as-a-holiday-gift/>



      Tech Trends: Choosing a drone as a holiday gift
      <http://kron4.com/2015/12/17/tech-trends-what-you-need-to-know-when-choosing-a-drone-as-a-holiday-gift/>


  Trending on KRON4.com


  More Bay Area News

  *
    donna-kellogg
    <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/ghost-ship-fire-victims-talks-to-kron4/>


      “Ghost Ship” fire victim’s ex-boyfriend talks to KRON4
      <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/ghost-ship-fire-victims-talks-to-kron4/>

  *
    memorial_3
    <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/memorial-near-warehouse-for-oakland-fire-victims/>



      Memorial near warehouse for Oakland fire victims
      <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/memorial-near-warehouse-for-oakland-fire-victims/>

  *
    noel-gallo
    <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/video-oakland-city-councilman-speaks-about-deadly-warehouse-fire/>



      VIDEO: Oakland city councilman speaks about deadly warehouse fire
      <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/video-oakland-city-councilman-speaks-about-deadly-warehouse-fire/>

  *
    460x-18
    <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/criminal-investigation-underway-in-oakland-warehouse-fire/>



      Criminal investigation underway in Oakland warehouse fire
      <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/criminal-investigation-underway-in-oakland-warehouse-fire/>


  MORE FROM VINCE CESTONE

  *


      VIDEO: Close encounter with whales in SF Bay
      <http://kron4.com/2016/07/11/stunning-video-close-encounter-with-whales-near-treasure-island/>

  *


      Photos: 4th of July fireworks from around US
      <http://kron4.com/2016/07/04/photos-fourth-of-july-fireworks-from-around-the-united-states/>


  KRON Resource Links

KRON Links <http://kron4.com/category/news/news-links/> *KRON LINKS*
<http://kron4.com/category/news/news-links/> as mentioned on KRON News
KRON Weather <http://kron4.com/category/weather/> *Bay Area Weather*
<http://kron4.com/category/weather/>
KRON Report <http://kron4.com/contact-us/> *Report It!*
<http://kron4.com/contact-us/> Submit a tip to KRON
KRON 4 App Get KRON 4 App [*iPhone/iPad*
<https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/kron-4/id472672814?mt=8>] [*Android*
<https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.linmedia.newstouch.ksnw>]


<http://kron4.com/category/advertise-with-kron/>

Advertisement

Advertisement

Advertisement


    KRON4.com <http://kron4.com/>

© Copyright 2000 - 2016 Young Broadcasting of San Francisco, Inc. A
Media General Company.

Powered by WordPress.com VIP
<https://vip.wordpress.com/?utm_source=vip_powered_wpcom&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=VIP%20Footer%20Credit>


      Sections

  * News <http://kron4.com/category/news/>
  * San Francisco Bay Area Weather <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>
  * Traffic <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
  * Sports <http://kron4.com/category/sports/>
  * Features <http://kron4.com/category/features/>


      Station

  * Contact Us <http://kron4.com/contact-us/>
  * Television Schedule <http://kron4.com/television-schedule/>
  * Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KRON4>
  * Twitter <https://twitter.com/kron4news>


      Business

  * Terms of Use <http://kron4.com/terms-of-use/>
  * FCC Public File <https://publicfiles.fcc.gov/tv-profile/kron-tv>
  * EEO Report
    <https://publicfiles.fcc.gov/tv-profile/kron-tv/equal-employment-opportunity-records/additional-documents/eeo-public-file-reports/f7008eea-d138-0cca-830a-8cfa91a32037/>
  * Children’s Programming
    <https://publicfiles.fcc.gov/tv-profile/kron-tv/programs-list/>
  * Closed Captioning Contact Information
    <http://kron4.com/closed-captioning-contact-information/>
  * Media General <http://mediageneral.com/>


      Follow

  * Subscribe via RSS <http://kron4.com/feed/>
  * Follow us on Twitter <https://twitter.com/kron4news>
  * Join us on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KRON4>
  * Follow us on YouTube <https://www.youtube.com/user/kron4tv>
  * Follow us on Google+ <https://plus.google.com/+kron4tv>
  * Follow us on Pinterest <https://pinterest.com/kron4tv>
  * Follow us on Instagram <https://instagram.com/kron4tv>

<#>
LIVE STREAM:
KRON4 News at 8 PM
:)
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

