  * Home <http://kron4.com/>
  * News <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o Bay Area News <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o California News <http://kron4.com/category/news/california-news/>
      o DECISION 2016
        <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/election-2016/>
      o National <http://kron4.com/category/news/national/>
      o International <http://kron4.com/category/news/international/>
      o Politics <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/>
      o Strange <http://kron4.com/category/news/strange/>
      o Entertainment News <http://kron4.com/bitesizetv/>
      o MyKRON4Story <http://kron4.com/category/news/mykron4story/>
      o Our Team <http://kron4.com/category/news/kron4-news-team/>
  * Bay Area Weather <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>
      o Airport Delays <http://kron4.com/weather/airport-delays/>
      o Current Conditions <http://kron4.com/weather/current-conditions/>
      o Earthquakes <http://kron4.com/weather/earthquakes/>
      o Fire Danger <http://kron4.com/weather/fire-danger/>
      o Forecasts <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>
      o Live Cameras <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>
      o Rainfall Totals <http://kron4.com/weather/rainfall-totals/>
      o Satellite <http://kron4.com/weather/satellite/>
      o SatRad <http://kron4.com/weather/satrad/>
      o Weather Alerts <http://kron4.com/weather-alerts/>
  * Traffic <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
      o Live Cameras <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Traffic Conditions
        <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
  * Sports <http://kron4.com/category/sports/>
      o Gary’s World <http://kron4.com/category/sports/gary-radnich/>
      o San Francisco 49ers <http://kron4.com/category/sports/49ers/>
      o Oakland A’s <http://kron4.com/category/sports/as/>
      o Cal <http://kron4.com/category/sports/cal/>
      o Giants <http://kron4.com/category/sports/giants/>
      o Raiders <http://kron4.com/category/sports/raiders/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes
        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o Sharks <http://kron4.com/category/sports/sharks/>
      o Stanford <http://kron4.com/category/sports/stanford-sports/>
      o Warriors <http://kron4.com/category/sports/warriors/>
  * Features <http://kron4.com/category/features/>
      o Holidays 2016 <http://kron4.com/category/holidays-2016/>
      o New Year’s Live on KRON 4
        <http://kron4.com/category/new-years-live-on-kron-4/>
      o Bay Area Living <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/>
      o KRON 4 BackStory <http://kron4.com/category/kron-4-backstory/>
      o Dine & Dish <http://kron4.com/category/features/dine-dish/>
      o Family Fun <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/family-fun/>
      o KRON 4’s Teacher of the Week
        <http://kron4.com/kron-4s-teacher-of-the-week/>
      o Tech Trends <http://kron4.com/category/features/tech/>
      o People Behaving Badly
        <http://kron4.com/category/features/people-behaving-badly/>
  * KRON <http://kron4.com/category/kron/>
      o Jobs at KRON <http://kron4.com/category/kron/jobs-at-kron/>
      o Community <http://kron4.com/category/kron/community/>
      o Contests <http://kron4.com/category/kron/contests/>
      o Advertising Terms and Conditions
        <https://mgtvkron.files.wordpress.com/2014/12/young-broadcasting-advertising-ts-and-cs.pdf>
      o Advertise with KRON 4
        <http://kron4.com/category/advertise-with-kron/>
      o History of Bay Area
        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/25/tech-trends-history-of-bay-area-revived-through-remastering-old-news-film-footage/>
  * KRON 4 Live <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Live News Casts <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Second Screen Live Stream
        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/16/live-stream-kron4-news-second-screen/>
  * More <http://kron4.com/category/more/>
      o Report It! <http://kron4.com/report-it/>
      o Contact Us <http://kron4.com/contact-us/>
      o Television Schedule <http://kron4.com/television-schedule/>
      o Marketplace <http://kron4.com/category/marketplace/>
      o Closed Captioning Contact Info
        <http://kron4.com/closed-captioning-contact-information/>


  KRON4.com <http://kron4.com/>

Broken Clouds


      55° F

Broken Clouds

  * Hi: 58° F
  * Lo: 47° F

<http://kron4.com/category/weather>

  * San Francisco Bay Area Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>
  * Forecasts <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>
  * Bay Area Traffic Conditions
    <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>


Menu

Skip to content

<#content>  
Home

<http://kron4.com/>

  * News

    <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o Bay Area News

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/bay-area/>
      o California News

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/california-news/>
      o DECISION 2016

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/election-2016/>
      o National

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/national/>
      o International

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/international/>
      o Politics

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/politics/>
      o Strange

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/strange/>
      o Entertainment News

        <http://kron4.com/bitesizetv/>
      o MyKRON4Story

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/mykron4story/>
      o Our Team

        <http://kron4.com/category/news/kron4-news-team/>
  * Bay Area Weather

    <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>


          Bay Area Weather

      o Airport Delays <http://kron4.com/weather/airport-delays/>
      o Current Conditions <http://kron4.com/weather/current-conditions/>
      o Earthquakes <http://kron4.com/weather/earthquakes/>
      o Fire Danger <http://kron4.com/weather/fire-danger/>
      o Forecasts <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>
      o Live Cameras <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>
      o Rainfall Totals <http://kron4.com/weather/rainfall-totals/>
      o Satellite <http://kron4.com/weather/satellite/>
      o SatRad <http://kron4.com/weather/satrad/>
      o Weather Alerts <http://kron4.com/weather-alerts/>


          Current Conditions


          55° F

    Broken Clouds

      o Feels Like: 55° F
      o Wind: W 16
      o Humidity: 86%
      o Dewpoint: 51° F
      o Sunrise: 7:09 AM
      o Sunset: 4:50 PM

    <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>


          San Francisco Weather


    Forecast <http://kron4.com/weather/forecasts/>

    Radar <http://kron4.com/weather/radar/>


    Currently <http://kron4.com/weather/current-conditions/>

    Live Cams <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>

    Sponsored by:

  * Traffic

    <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
      o Live Cameras

        <http://kron4.com/weather/live-cameras/>
      o Traffic Conditions

        <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
  * Sports

    <http://kron4.com/category/sports/>
      o Gary’s World

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/gary-radnich/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/49ers/>
      o Oakland A’s

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/as/>
      o Cal

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/cal/>
      o Giants

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/giants/>
      o Raiders

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/raiders/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o Sharks

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/sharks/>
      o Stanford

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/stanford-sports/>
      o Warriors

        <http://kron4.com/category/sports/warriors/>
  * Features

    <http://kron4.com/category/features/>
      o Holidays 2016

        <http://kron4.com/category/holidays-2016/>
      o New Year’s Live on KRON 4

        <http://kron4.com/category/new-years-live-on-kron-4/>
      o Bay Area Living

        <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/>
      o KRON 4 BackStory

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron-4-backstory/>
      o Dine & Dish

        <http://kron4.com/category/features/dine-dish/>
      o Family Fun

        <http://kron4.com/category/bay-area-living/family-fun/>
      o KRON 4’s Teacher of the Week

        <http://kron4.com/kron-4s-teacher-of-the-week/>
      o Tech Trends

        <http://kron4.com/category/features/tech/>
      o People Behaving Badly

        <http://kron4.com/category/features/people-behaving-badly/>
  * KRON

    <http://kron4.com/category/kron/>
      o Jobs at KRON

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron/jobs-at-kron/>
      o Community

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron/community/>
      o Contests

        <http://kron4.com/category/kron/contests/>
      o Advertising Terms and Conditions

        <https://mgtvkron.files.wordpress.com/2014/12/young-broadcasting-advertising-ts-and-cs.pdf>
      o Advertise with KRON 4

        <http://kron4.com/category/advertise-with-kron/>
      o History of Bay Area

        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/25/tech-trends-history-of-bay-area-revived-through-remastering-old-news-film-footage/>
  * KRON 4 Live

    <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Live News Casts

        <http://kron4.com/watch-kron-4-newscasts/>
      o Second Screen Live Stream

        <http://kron4.com/2016/03/16/live-stream-kron4-news-second-screen/>
  * More

    <http://kron4.com/category/more/>
      o Report It!

        <http://kron4.com/report-it/>
      o Contact Us

        <http://kron4.com/contact-us/>
      o Television Schedule

        <http://kron4.com/television-schedule/>
      o Marketplace

        <http://kron4.com/category/marketplace/>
      o Closed Captioning Contact Info

        <http://kron4.com/closed-captioning-contact-information/>

Search for:

Search the site <#>
Broken Clouds


      55° F

Broken Clouds

  * Hi: 58° F
  * Lo: 47° F

<http://kron4.com/category/weather>


  Video: Bay Area woman goes from homeless to helping the homeless

Spencer Blake Published: June 27, 2016, 9:11 pm

  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/27/video-bay-area-woman-goes-from-homeless-to-helping-the-homeless/?share=twitter>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/27/video-bay-area-woman-goes-from-homeless-to-helping-the-homeless/?share=google-plus-1>
  * Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/27/video-bay-area-woman-goes-from-homeless-to-helping-the-homeless/?share=facebook>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/27/video-bay-area-woman-goes-from-homeless-to-helping-the-homeless/?share=pinterest>

BF0EDEBB0F4542359D83BA41CD76BCCF


      Related Coverage

  *


      Video: Homeless man dances for change
      <http://kron4.com/2016/06/27/video-homeless-man-dances-for-change/>

  *


      Gallery: Homeless encampments in San Francisco
      <http://kron4.com/2016/06/27/gallery-homeless-encampments-in-san-francisco/>

  *


      SF Homelessness <http://kron4.com/gallery/sf-homelessness/>

 

SAN FRANCISCO (KRON) — Seven-thousand homeless people are looking for a
place to sleep in San Francisco on Monday night.

Most of them won’t find one–at least not indoors. But one woman is
helping people find some stability. She herself said she has a journey
from homeless to a helper.

Just three years ago, Regina Bates had worked as a receptionist at a
medical group, until she came back from disability leave to find out
somebody else had been given her job. That was just as Bates gave a
30-day notice to move out of her apartment because she thought she’d be
able to afford a nicer one.

Instead, she ended up unemployed and homeless.

“You feel like everyone’s looking at you,” Coalition on Homeless peer
organizer Bates said. “My kids were constantly saying, ‘Mom, don’t tell
people we’re homeless,’ you know, and they had a stigma behind it. They
didn’t feel good about themselves.”

For the next several months, Bates and her family stayed at church
shelters and in friends’ homes.

Through the tough times, though, she decided to pull herself up by her
own bootstraps–at the public library.

“I was like, ‘this is my job to get myself out of homelessness, and I
gotta research my way out of this situation’,” Bates said.

That research included ways to get free clothes for her kids. She found
out how to use her library card to get free tickets to the zoo and other
fun places in the city.

She also applied for jobs, and her administrative experience kicked in,
eventually landing her two jobs, one of them with the Coalition on
Homelessness.

Now, Bates is helping other families who are in a pickle she knows all
too well.

“It keeps us comfortable,” homeless mother Ghaimah Cutkelvin said. “It
gives us hope for a brighter future. It gives us inspiration. People
like Regina, she feels where we’re coming from.”

Things got better for the Bates family, too.

They are on a five-year plan with a home subsidy program that puts a
roof over their heads.

While she works to get others on their feet, Regina says she wants
everyone to know that homelessness is not a disease.

“When you go by a person that is in need, that you feel like they might
be homeless, or even if they’re not homeless, I think it’s really good
for people to at least acknowledge the person. Say hello,” Bates said.
“You might make their day.”

All this week, KRON will be covering theplight of the homeless in the
Bay Area <http://kron4.com/category/sf-homeless-project/>.

Top News
Sponsored By:


      Oakland residents fearful after double homicide

An escalation in violence, including the double homicide of two childhood…

 
Powered By
<http://i.jsrdn.com/i/1.gif?r=c9pg&k=ZAl1cy13ZXN0LTJhCWgJaS0zN2VlNzZhMwl1CWUyZjA2NjhkLTgyN2EtNDhhNS1hYjBmLThmYjEzMjI3NWE4NAl2CTRjNWViZTE5LThkNDAtNGVlNC1hZDU0LTRkZDMwNWI4Mjc1Mwl2bAkyMDE2MTIwNS4wMzQzCXZ0CTIwMTYxMjA1LjAzNDMJdnMJMjAxNjEwMjcJdmMJMjAxNjEwMjcJaQkxYmQwZDI2MC1lMjdkLTQwOTktYjM4ZC05ODBmYWQ2MGQxZjIJZglodHRwOi8va3JvbjQuY29tLzIwMTYvMDYvMjcvdmlkZW8tYmF5LWFyZWEtd29tYW4tZ29lcy1mcm9tLWhvbWVsZXNzLXRvLWhlbHBpbmctdGhlLWhvbWVsZXNzLwlxCTE2MDVmMTcxLWUwMzItNDMyZS1hNmJlLTIwMDQzYWU2MGE4OQltCTIyMzQyCWIJMjYyCWcJNDEwCXQJNDA4MQljCTQxMzEJbAk5MTI4CXoJODQ4NwlzCTQyMzIJcAkyMjQ3NAl3CW5ld3MJZ2MJVVMJZ3IJQ0EJZ2QJODA3CW5lCWl2CW5kCWl2CXNkCWtyb240LmNvbQluZglpdglxcAk1MAlxdAkyNTAwCXBuCTQ2NAl2bgkxMjY0NTYJZQljawlhCTQwNTM1CW8J&fwd=http%3A%2F%2Fdistroscale.com>



Share this:

  * Click to email (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/27/video-bay-area-woman-goes-from-homeless-to-helping-the-homeless/?share=email&nb=1>
  * More <#>
*

  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/27/video-bay-area-woman-goes-from-homeless-to-helping-the-homeless/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/27/video-bay-area-woman-goes-from-homeless-to-helping-the-homeless/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  *
  * Share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/27/video-bay-area-woman-goes-from-homeless-to-helping-the-homeless/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <http://kron4.com/2016/06/27/video-bay-area-woman-goes-from-homeless-to-helping-the-homeless/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  *
*


        Related Posts

holiday
<http://kron4.com/2016/11/24/video-free-5-star-meal-feeds-less-fortunate-in-east-bay/>



  VIDEO: Free 5-star meal feeds less fortunate in East Bay
  <http://kron4.com/2016/11/24/video-free-5-star-meal-feeds-less-fortunate-in-east-bay/>

KRIST WONGSUPHASAWAT
<http://kron4.com/2016/10/11/young-couple-expecting-new-baby-homeless-after-2-alarm-fire-in-san-franciscos-sunset-district/>



  VIDEO: Young couple expecting new baby homeless after 2-alarm fire in
  San Francisco’s Sunset District
  <http://kron4.com/2016/10/11/young-couple-expecting-new-baby-homeless-after-2-alarm-fire-in-san-franciscos-sunset-district/>

homeless
<http://kron4.com/2016/11/04/berkeley-officials-and-police-strategies-questioned-regarding-homeless-encampments/>



  Berkeley’s homeless plan questioned
  <http://kron4.com/2016/11/04/berkeley-officials-and-police-strategies-questioned-regarding-homeless-encampments/>

The last clouds clear out above Los Angeles Monday morning after an
overnight storm dropped more than an inch of rain in some areas. Skies
are clearing in much of Southern California after a wet autumn storm
packing heavy rain flooded roads and knocked out power to thousands.
(David Crane/Los Angeles Daily News/SCNG) (David Crane/Los Angeles Daily
News via AP)
<http://kron4.com/2016/11/21/4-rescued-as-autumn-storms-bring-rain-snow-to-california/>



  4 rescued as autumn storms bring rain, snow to California
  <http://kron4.com/2016/11/21/4-rescued-as-autumn-storms-bring-rain-snow-to-california/>

Advertisement

« Previous Story
<http://kron4.com/2016/06/27/video-the-bay-areas-homeless-population/> —
Next Story »
<http://kron4.com/2016/06/27/san-franciscos-homeless-population-jumps/>
  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
by Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Sponsored Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
You May Like
Harry&#39;s
<https://ad.atdmt.com/c/go;p=11252201315513;ev.a=1;idfa=;idfa_lat=;aaid=;aaid_lat=;cache=?ad_image=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F7352b83bb011d367aa0fa8ffa4c4b7fc.jpg&ad_title=Why+This+Razor+Is+Causing+So+Many+Guys+To+Switch&site_id=mediageneral-newskron4>Why
This Razor Is Causing So Many Guys To SwitchHarry's
<https://ad.atdmt.com/c/go;p=11252201315513;ev.a=1;idfa=;idfa_lat=;aaid=;aaid_lat=;cache=?ad_image=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F7352b83bb011d367aa0fa8ffa4c4b7fc.jpg&ad_title=Why+This+Razor+Is+Causing+So+Many+Guys+To+Switch&site_id=mediageneral-newskron4>
Undo
MIT Review | Elysium Health
<https://www.technologyreview.com/s/534636/the-anti-aging-pill/?utm_source=taboolaTechR&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=3NewCategoryHeadlines&utm_content=PaidContent&utm_term=&GA=attribution>Science
Fiction, Minus the Fiction: A New Theory of Aging from BostonMIT Review
| Elysium Health
<https://www.technologyreview.com/s/534636/the-anti-aging-pill/?utm_source=taboolaTechR&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=3NewCategoryHeadlines&utm_content=PaidContent&utm_term=&GA=attribution>
Undo
Trend Chaser
<http://www.trend-chaser.com/entertainment/happy-days-then-now/?dmc=a6a1&utm_source=tb&utm_medium=mediageneral-newskron4-tb&utm_term=%27Erin%27+From+Happy+Days+Looks+Like+Now+Is+Insane-https%3A%2F%2Fconsole.brax-cdn.com%2Fcreatives%2Fb86bbc0b-1fab-4ae3-9b34-fef78c1a7488%2Ferinm_happy_fc557df0f0212bfef5ab54015becdee2.600x500.png&utm_content=1401795797373458297&utm_campaign=420260-tb>'Erin'
From Happy Days Looks Like Now Is InsaneTrend Chaser
<http://www.trend-chaser.com/entertainment/happy-days-then-now/?dmc=a6a1&utm_source=tb&utm_medium=mediageneral-newskron4-tb&utm_term=%27Erin%27+From+Happy+Days+Looks+Like+Now+Is+Insane-https%3A%2F%2Fconsole.brax-cdn.com%2Fcreatives%2Fb86bbc0b-1fab-4ae3-9b34-fef78c1a7488%2Ferinm_happy_fc557df0f0212bfef5ab54015becdee2.600x500.png&utm_content=1401795797373458297&utm_campaign=420260-tb>
Undo
Scanguard Protection
<http://track.globaltechadvice.com/aec7ff68-efa6-4de4-8532-7a3f78f6e6aa?campaign=SG_TABOOLA_US_RON&source=mediageneral-newskron4&image=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F5583f16eb0d97343e1af10a8e63a56d0.jpg&header=Use+This+Trick+Every+Time+You+Turn+On+Your+PC%E2%80%A6.&ad=2>Use
This Trick Every Time You Turn On Your PC….Scanguard Protection
<http://track.globaltechadvice.com/aec7ff68-efa6-4de4-8532-7a3f78f6e6aa?campaign=SG_TABOOLA_US_RON&source=mediageneral-newskron4&image=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F5583f16eb0d97343e1af10a8e63a56d0.jpg&header=Use+This+Trick+Every+Time+You+Turn+On+Your+PC%E2%80%A6.&ad=2>
Undo
Definition
<http://definition.org/waltons-family-happened/?utm_source=Taboola&utm_medium=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_content=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F14b48556cc6b2980fb091a38158870dd.jpg&utm_campaign=DEF_US_D_Taboola_D33890>What
Erin From “The Waltons” Looks Like Now is InsaneDefinition
<http://definition.org/waltons-family-happened/?utm_source=Taboola&utm_medium=mediageneral-newskron4&utm_content=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F14b48556cc6b2980fb091a38158870dd.jpg&utm_campaign=DEF_US_D_Taboola_D33890>
Undo
Bloomberg
<http://www.bloomberg.com/news/videos/2016-09-21/the-engineer-who-made-panda-express-a-food-court-staple??cmpid=taboola.video>Video:
This Chinese Eatery is in Every Food Court, But Why?Bloomberg
<http://www.bloomberg.com/news/videos/2016-09-21/the-engineer-who-made-panda-express-a-food-court-staple??cmpid=taboola.video>
Undo
Show Comments

Advertisement


  2016 Holiday Gift Guide

  *
    Hatchimals is Gabe Slate's top kids tech toy for 2016.
    <http://kron4.com/2016/12/01/2016-holiday-gift-guide-top-25-hot-tech-toys-for-kids/>



      Holiday Gift Guide: Top 25 hot tech toys for kids
      <http://kron4.com/2016/12/01/2016-holiday-gift-guide-top-25-hot-tech-toys-for-kids/>

  *
    178260FE046C47178C0B7AA3EB490F98
    <http://kron4.com/2016/01/01/tech-trends-2016-tech-predictions-include-new-apple-gadgets-virtual-reality/>



      Tech Trends: 2016 tech predictions
      <http://kron4.com/2016/01/01/tech-trends-2016-tech-predictions-include-new-apple-gadgets-virtual-reality/>

  *
    1-Apple-Watch-
    <http://kron4.com/2015/12/30/tech-trends-best-of-tech-gadgets-2015/>


      Tech Trends: Best of tech gadgets 2015
      <http://kron4.com/2015/12/30/tech-trends-best-of-tech-gadgets-2015/>

  *
    drone post 2
    <http://kron4.com/2015/12/17/tech-trends-what-you-need-to-know-when-choosing-a-drone-as-a-holiday-gift/>



      Tech Trends: Choosing a drone as a holiday gift
      <http://kron4.com/2015/12/17/tech-trends-what-you-need-to-know-when-choosing-a-drone-as-a-holiday-gift/>


  Trending on KRON4.com


  More Bay Area News

  *
    donna-kellogg
    <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/ghost-ship-fire-victims-talks-to-kron4/>


      “Ghost Ship” fire victim’s ex-boyfriend talks to KRON4
      <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/ghost-ship-fire-victims-talks-to-kron4/>

  *
    memorial_3
    <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/memorial-near-warehouse-for-oakland-fire-victims/>



      Memorial near warehouse for Oakland fire victims
      <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/memorial-near-warehouse-for-oakland-fire-victims/>

  *
    noel-gallo
    <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/video-oakland-city-councilman-speaks-about-deadly-warehouse-fire/>



      VIDEO: Oakland city councilman speaks about deadly warehouse fire
      <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/video-oakland-city-councilman-speaks-about-deadly-warehouse-fire/>

  *
    460x-18
    <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/criminal-investigation-underway-in-oakland-warehouse-fire/>



      Criminal investigation underway in Oakland warehouse fire
      <http://kron4.com/2016/12/04/criminal-investigation-underway-in-oakland-warehouse-fire/>


  MORE FROM VINCE CESTONE

  *


      VIDEO: Close encounter with whales in SF Bay
      <http://kron4.com/2016/07/11/stunning-video-close-encounter-with-whales-near-treasure-island/>

  *


      Photos: 4th of July fireworks from around US
      <http://kron4.com/2016/07/04/photos-fourth-of-july-fireworks-from-around-the-united-states/>


  KRON Resource Links

KRON Links <http://kron4.com/category/news/news-links/> *KRON LINKS*
<http://kron4.com/category/news/news-links/> as mentioned on KRON News
KRON Weather <http://kron4.com/category/weather/> *Bay Area Weather*
<http://kron4.com/category/weather/>
KRON Report <http://kron4.com/contact-us/> *Report It!*
<http://kron4.com/contact-us/> Submit a tip to KRON
KRON 4 App Get KRON 4 App [*iPhone/iPad*
<https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/kron-4/id472672814?mt=8>] [*Android*
<https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.linmedia.newstouch.ksnw>]


<http://kron4.com/category/advertise-with-kron/>

Advertisement

Advertisement

Advertisement


    KRON4.com <http://kron4.com/>

© Copyright 2000 - 2016 Young Broadcasting of San Francisco, Inc. A
Media General Company.

Powered by WordPress.com VIP
<https://vip.wordpress.com/?utm_source=vip_powered_wpcom&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=VIP%20Footer%20Credit>


      Sections

  * News <http://kron4.com/category/news/>
  * San Francisco Bay Area Weather <http://kron4.com/category/weather/>
  * Traffic <http://kron4.com/san-francisco-traffic-conditions/>
  * Sports <http://kron4.com/category/sports/>
  * Features <http://kron4.com/category/features/>


      Station

  * Contact Us <http://kron4.com/contact-us/>
  * Television Schedule <http://kron4.com/television-schedule/>
  * Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KRON4>
  * Twitter <https://twitter.com/kron4news>


      Business

  * Terms of Use <http://kron4.com/terms-of-use/>
  * FCC Public File <https://publicfiles.fcc.gov/tv-profile/kron-tv>
  * EEO Report
    <https://publicfiles.fcc.gov/tv-profile/kron-tv/equal-employment-opportunity-records/additional-documents/eeo-public-file-reports/f7008eea-d138-0cca-830a-8cfa91a32037/>
  * Children’s Programming
    <https://publicfiles.fcc.gov/tv-profile/kron-tv/programs-list/>
  * Closed Captioning Contact Information
    <http://kron4.com/closed-captioning-contact-information/>
  * Media General <http://mediageneral.com/>


      Follow

  * Subscribe via RSS <http://kron4.com/feed/>
  * Follow us on Twitter <https://twitter.com/kron4news>
  * Join us on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KRON4>
  * Follow us on YouTube <https://www.youtube.com/user/kron4tv>
  * Follow us on Google+ <https://plus.google.com/+kron4tv>
  * Follow us on Pinterest <https://pinterest.com/kron4tv>
  * Follow us on Instagram <https://instagram.com/kron4tv>

<#>
LIVE STREAM:
KRON4 News at 8 PM
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

:)
