  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * The Cannifornian

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

The Mercury News

<http://www.mercurynews.com/>

  * Weather <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Today’s E Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
  * Subscribe <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx>
  * Newsletter <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>

  * Most Popular

    <#>
  * News

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>
      o Latest Headlines

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/latest-headlines/>
      o Opinion

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/opinion/>
      o California News

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/california-news/>
      o Environment & Science

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/environment-science/>
      o Nation & World

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/nation-world/>
      o Education

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/education/>
      o Crime & Courts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/crime-courts/>
      o Health

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/health/>
      o Politics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/politics/>
      o Transportation

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/transportation/>
      o Traffic Map

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/traffic/>
      o Weather

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/weather/>
  * Local

    <#0>
      o Bay Area

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/>
      o San Jose

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/san-jose/>
      o Santa Clara County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-clara-county/>
      o Peninsula

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/>
      o San Mateo County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/peninsula/san-mateo-county/>
      o Alameda County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/east-bay/alameda-county/>
      o Santa Cruz County

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/location/california/bay-area/south-bay/santa-cruz-county/>
  * Sports

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/>
      o San Francisco 49ers

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-49ers/>
      o San Francisco Giants

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-francisco-giants/>
      o Golden State Warriors

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/golden-state-warriors/>
      o Oakland Raiders

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-raiders/>
      o Oakland Athletics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/oakland-athletics/>
      o San Jose Sharks

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-sharks/>
      o San Jose Earthquakes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/san-jose-earthquakes/>
      o College Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/college-sports/>
      o High School Sports

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/high-school-sports/>
      o High School Scores

        <http://bayareapreps.com/>
      o Sports Scoreboard

        <http://m.mercurynews.sportsdirectinc.com/gamematchups.aspx>
      o Sports Columnists

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sports/columnists/>
      o Sports Blogs

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/blogs/>
  * Business

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Business

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/>
      o Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/technology/>
      o Personal Technology

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/personal-technology/>
      o Economy

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/economy/>
      o Startups

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/startups>
      o Real Estate

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/business/real-estate/>
      o SiliconValley.com

        <http://www.siliconvalley.com/>
      o SiliconBeat

        <http://www.siliconbeat.com/>
  * Entertainment

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Entertainment

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/>
      o Lifestyle

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/lifestyle/>
      o Celebrities

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/tag/celebrities/>
      o Television

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/television/>
      o Movies

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/music/>
      o Theater & Arts

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/entertainment/theater-arts/>
      o Event Listings

        <http://events.mercurynews.com/>
      o Movie Listings

        <http://movies.mercurynews.com/>
      o Comics

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/comics/>
      o Horoscopes

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/horoscopes/>
      o Puzzles and Games

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/puzzle-games/>
  * Obituaries

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Obituaries

        <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/obituaries/>
      o Local Obituaries

        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/mercurynews/>
      o Place an Obituary

        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
  * The Cannifornian

    <http://thecannifornian.com/>


        ViewPoints by Rob Schroder: Improving services…
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/viewpoints-by-rob-schroder-improving-services-for-homeless/>



Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/viewpoints-by-rob-schroder-improving-services-for-homeless/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/viewpoints-by-rob-schroder-improving-services-for-homeless/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/viewpoints-by-rob-schroder-improving-services-for-homeless/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/viewpoints-by-rob-schroder-improving-services-for-homeless/#print>
*

<#>

Trending:

  * Sherri Papini case
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/sherri-papini-consultant-asked-to-find-another-missing-california-mom/>

  * 49ers should’ve kept Smith
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/purdy-the-kap-vs-alex-argument-is-settled-and-its-become-obvious-the-49ers-made-the-wrong-choice/>

  * Kim K. to divorce?
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/is-kim-kardashian-plotting-to-divorce-kanye-west/>

  * Pitt vs. Jolie
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/brad-pitt-moves-to-seal-documents-in-angelina-jolie-custody-dispute/>

  * After cold snap, rain
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/bay-area-weather-after-cold-snap-rain-on-the-way/>

  * Bay Area poverty
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/more-bay-area-residents-struggling-than-poverty-statistics-indicate/>



News <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/>


  ViewPoints by Rob Schroder: Improving services for homeless


Share this:

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/viewpoints-by-rob-schroder-improving-services-for-homeless/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/viewpoints-by-rob-schroder-improving-services-for-homeless/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/viewpoints-by-rob-schroder-improving-services-for-homeless/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/28/viewpoints-by-rob-schroder-improving-services-for-homeless/#print>
*

By Mark Purdy <http://www.mercurynews.com/author/mark-purdy/> |
mpurdy@bayareanewsgroup.com <mailto:mpurdy@bayareanewsgroup.com> and Rob
Schroder <http://www.mercurynews.com/author/rob-schroder/>	
June 28, 2016 at 11:16 am

All of the 19 cities in Contra Costa County have unique attributes that
set their downtowns apart from every other.

Concord has Todos Santos Plaza, Pleasant Hill has Crescent Drive.
Clayton has Concerts in the Grove. Martinez has a historic and quaint
downtown adjacent to the waterfront with a cluster of government
buildings that loom above all others.

Since Contra Costa became a county, Martinez has been the county seat,
and host to all that designation brings. It includes the Board of
Supervisors, sheriff, district attorney, superior courts, county
hospital and welfare services.

This brings employees, attorneys, jurors, defendants and the general
public from all over the East Bay into downtown Martinez. It also brings
in those released from jail, released mentally ill patients, and
individuals seeking welfare services and support.

This has created a huge challenge for the Martinez Police Department,
Public Works and the businesses in the downtown.

But about 12 years ago, a gentleman by the name of Doug Stewart appeared
on the scene and offered his help to the city in stemming our problem of
homelessness.

Doug had started to seek out solutions to the homeless issues in Pacheco
as a member of the Pacheco Municipal Advisory Council by going out at
night and finding the homeless in his community and getting them help.

He would provide blankets, socks, personal hygiene kits and rides to
BART or a bus. Thus was born the Pacheco Homeless Outreach.

Doug expanded the operation into Martinez and we immediately saw the
benefit. To help defray costs, the city granted Doug a small amount of
money which eventually turned into a budget line item of $30,000 per
year. The organization became Pacheco/Martinez Homeless Outreach.

Soon, the communities of Richmond and Concord saw the good work that
Doug and his volunteer crew was accomplishing and they contracted for
his services. The organization then became Contra Costa Homeless Outreach.

For years, they went out almost every night of the week seeking out the
homeless and getting them what they needed — clean and dry socks, a
blanket, a ride to a shelter.

For a multitude of reasons, including financial and personal, Doug has
decided to retire from this line of work and shut the organization down.
All operations cease June 30, leaving a gaping hole in homeless services
in Contra Costa County.

As a result, I recently met with Martinez Police Chief Manjit Sappal,
City Manager Brad Kilger, Bill Schiltz and Doug. We wanted to hear from
Doug and Bill what we would expect to find in the Martinez homeless
community — where the encampments are, who are the regulars he deals
with, what challenges they had, and what they thought needed to be done.

Out of that meeting we have mapped some initial strategy on how to move
forward, and to not only continue, but to improve, the services that
Contra Costa Homeless Outreach has been providing the homeless, and
therefore, the entire Martinez community.

And since homelessness is not just a Martinez problem, we will be
contacting other cities to see if they will have an interest in working
with us.

Through the generosity of Tesoro and a grant of $90,000 over three
years, combined with the money already allocated in the Police
Department, we will be able to get started.

Rob Schroder is the mayor of Martinez. Email him at
rschroder@cityofmartinez.org <mailto:rschroder@cityofmartinez.org>.

Naan Your Nana Will Love: 5 Great Holiday Recipes
<http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=DnYCAZdoKArLEPA&ntv_fr>

Sponsored Content


        Naan Your Nana Will Love: 5 Great Holiday Recipes
        <http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=DnYCAZdoKArLEPA&ntv_fr>


By Stonefire
<http://www.mercurynews.com/sponsor-content?prx_t=DnYCAZdoKArLEPA&ntv_fr>

Surround yourself with the warmth of family, friends and Stonefire Naan
this holiday season.

Pictured is Mercury News sports columnist Mark Purdy. Photo for column
sig or social media usage. (Michael Malone/staff)	


Mark Purdy <http://www.mercurynews.com/author/mark-purdy/>

Mark Purdy is a sports columnist for the Bay Area News Group. He joined
the organization's Mercury News in 1984 and has covered 14 Olympic
Games, more than 30 Super Bowls and more than 20 World Series. He
concentrates mostly on the Bay Area's professional teams but covers all
sports. He was there for the first Sharks' game at the Cow Palace in
1991 and documented the team's 2016 Stanley Cup playoff run.
// Follow Mark Purdy @MercPurdy <https://twitter.com/MercPurdy>


Rob Schroder <http://www.mercurynews.com/author/rob-schroder/>

Subscribe Today! All Access Digital offer for just 99 cents!
<https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dsssubscribe.aspx>
 
You Might Also Like

  *
    Tips on How To Become a Manager Tips on How To Become a Manager CAL
    STATE MONTEREY BAY
    <https://mba.csumb.edu/blog/tips-on-how-to-become-a-manager?utm_source=Outbrain&utm_medium=Online%20Media&utm_campaign=CSUMB_Native>

  *
    10 Best Rewards Cards: Get $150 Bonus Cashback 10 Best Rewards
    Cards: Get $150 Bonus Cashback GET.com
    <https://www.get.com/credit-cards-best-bonus-offers/?ad=outbrain_bonus_150&utm_medium=cpc&utm_source=outbrain_248358&utm_campaign=outbrain_bonus_150_69875867&oclid=6b3d35f8620b12d3c7bb5cc861822b01>

  *
    How Can I Tell if Someone I love is an Alcoholic? | Hazelden Betty
    Ford How Can I Tell if Someone I love is an Alcoholic? |…
    www.hazeldenbettyford.org
    <http://www.hazeldenbettyford.org/articles/how-can-i-tell-if-someone-i-love-is-an-alcoholic?utm_source=outbrain&utm_medium=ppc-articles&utm_campaign=signs-brand-awareness>


  *
    If you aren’t sure if you’re experiencing PMS or the early signs of
    pregnancy, head to our blog: If you aren’t sure if you’re
    experiencing PMS or the… The Stork®
    <https://www.storkotc.com/pregnant?utm_source=outbrain>
  *
    Get a glimpse of an amazing future enabled by the data center in
    Servers Rock: Our Connected Earth Get a glimpse of an amazing future
    enabled by the data… Intel Servers Rock
    <https://ad.doubleclick.net/ddm/clk/310019250;137045041;h>
  *
    Up To 50,000 Bonus Miles: Best Travel Credit Cards Up To 50,000
    Bonus Miles: Best Travel Credit Cards GET.com
    <https://www.get.com/10-best-airline-credit-cards/?ad=outbrain_airline_miles&utm_medium=cpc&utm_source=outbrain_248358&utm_campaign=outbrain_airline_miles_70153484&oclid=6b3d35f8620b12d3c7bb5cc861822b01>


  *
    Warriors Monday Mailbag: What’s up with the center spot? Death
    lineup overuse? Warriors Monday Mailbag: What’s up with the center…
    MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/05/warriors-monday-mailbag-whats-up-with-the-center-spot-death-lineup-overuse/>

  *
    Ask Amy: I spent too long in the bathroom, and now he’s crazy
    jealous Ask Amy: I spent too long in the bathroom, and now…
    MercuryNews.com
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/08/25/ask-amy-i-spent-too-long-in-the-bathroom-and-now-hes-crazy-jealous/>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Map and view of deadly fire neighborhood
    Oakland warehouse fire: Map and view of deadly fire…
    EastBayTimes.com
    <http://www.eastbaytimes.com/2016/12/03/oakland-warehouse-fire-map-and-view-of-deadly-fire-neighborhood/>


Recommended by<http://www.outbrain.com/what-is/default/en>

Sign up for our newsletters!

Subscribe <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
Follow Us

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>


    Most Popular

 1. Oakland fire aftermath: Evictions as artists’ worst fears come true

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/evictions-in-ghost-ships-wake-artists-worst-fears-coming-true/>

 2. Kim Kardashian is plotting to divorce Kanye West, one report says

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/is-kim-kardashian-plotting-to-divorce-kanye-west/>

 3. San Jose: Firefighters knock down abandoned home fire, suspect squatter

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-jose-firefighters-knock-down-abandoned-home-fire-suspect-squatter/>

 4. Oakland warehouse fire: Officials release names of 9 more victims

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/oakland-warehouse-fire-search-for-victims-85-percent-complete-death-toll-still-36/>

 5. Purdy: It’s now obvious the 49ers should have kept Smith, not
    Kaepernick

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/purdy-the-kap-vs-alex-argument-is-settled-and-its-become-obvious-the-49ers-made-the-wrong-choice/>

 6. Eddy Lepp free after 10-year sentence for growing marijuana

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/cannabis-convict-eddy-lepp-free-after-long-prison-term/>

 7. Sherri Papini ‘consultant’ asked to find another missing California mom

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/06/sherri-papini-consultant-asked-to-find-another-missing-california-mom/>

 8. Oakland: Artists, restaurant at odds over Salt Lick warehouse
    following deadly Ghost Ship blaze

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-artists-restaurant-at-odds-over-salt-lick-warehouse/>


OFF
ON

Aa
Aa
Aa
Aa

02:0202:02

  *

    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news...

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Responders talk about Oakland warehouse fire

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31711792&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>

  *

    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news...

    Bay Area News Group

    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>



        More videos:

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news conference
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Responders talk about Oakland warehouse fire
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31711792&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news conference
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Responders talk about Oakland warehouse fire
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31711792&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Emotions run high at Everett & Jones
    Barbeque news conference
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31716540&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Responders talk about Oakland warehouse fire
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31711792&playlistId=18873>

  *
    Oakland warehouse fire: Officials show photos, give update
    <http://launch.newsinc.com/embed.html?type=VideoPlayer/16x9&trackingGroup=90757&widgetId=1&videoId=31706128&playlistId=18873>



    More in News

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/judge-to-weigh-in-on-buena-vista-closure/>

    Whether Palo Alto city leaders will re-evaluate their 2015 decision
    to allow property owners to close Buena Vista Mobile Home Park will
    be up to Santa Clara County Superior Court Judge Brian Walsh, who
    took the case under submission on Wednesday after hearing oral
    arguments from attorneys representing mobile home park residents,
    the city of Palo Alto and property owners. He's expected to make a
    decision within 90 days.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/judge-to-weigh-in-on-buena-vista-closure/>



              Buena Vista residents say city should reverse closure
              decision
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/judge-to-weigh-in-on-buena-vista-closure/>


    December 07, 2016, 10:55 pm

    Whether Palo Alto city leaders will re-evaluate their 2015 decision
    to allow property owners to close Buena Vista Mobile Home Park will
    be up to Santa Clara County Superior Court Judge Brian Walsh, who
    took the case under submission on Wednesday after hearing oral
    arguments from attorneys representing mobile home park residents,
    the city of Palo Alto and property owners....

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/flashing-crosswalks-bright-led-lights-being-installed-to-make-streets-safer/>

    Flashing crosswalks, bright LED lights being installed to make
    streets safer
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/flashing-crosswalks-bright-led-lights-being-installed-to-make-streets-safer/>



              Flashing crosswalks, bright LED lights being installed to
              make streets safer
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/flashing-crosswalks-bright-led-lights-being-installed-to-make-streets-safer/>


    December 07, 2016, 10:07 pm

    The streets in District 6 are becoming safer for bicyclists and
    pedestrians; Lincoln Avenue in Willow Glen is getting new LED street
    lights and several other areas are getting pedestrian-activated
    crosswalk lights. New decorative bike racks are also being added in
    Willow Glen and on The Alameda.

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-fire-search-completed-while-cause-remains-a-mystery/>

    Five days after the most deadly fire in Oakland history ravaged an
    artists' labyrinthine lair in the Fruitvale District, killing 36
    people trapped in the smoke and flames as the top floor and roof
    gave way, firefighters wrapped up their search Wednesday, leaving
    federal and local investigators on scene to figure out what caused
    the so-called Ghost Ship to suddenly go up in flames.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-fire-search-completed-while-cause-remains-a-mystery/>



              Oakland fire search completed while cause remains a
              mystery
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/oakland-fire-search-completed-while-cause-remains-a-mystery/>


    December 07, 2016, 9:33 pm

    Five days after the most deadly fire in Oakland history ravaged an
    artists’ labyrinthine lair in the Fruitvale District, killing 36
    people trapped in the smoke and flames as the top floor and roof
    gave way, firefighters wrapped up their search Wednesday, leaving
    federal and local investigators on scene to figure out what caused
    the so-called Ghost Ship to suddenly...

  *
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-mateo-fatal-fire-ruled-arson/>

    A three-alarm fire at a house where a woman was found dead last
    month was intentionally set, police said Wednesday.
    <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-mateo-fatal-fire-ruled-arson/>



              San Mateo: Fatal fire ruled arson
              <http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/12/07/san-mateo-fatal-fire-ruled-arson/>


    December 07, 2016, 7:04 pm

    A three-alarm fire at a house where a woman was found dead last
    month was intentionally set, police said Wednesday.

  * Member Services <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
  * News Alerts <https://digioh.com/BANG/general?source=TakeAction>

  * Facebook

    <https://facebook.com/mercurynews>
  * Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/mercnews>
  * Instagram

    <https://instagram.com/mercnews>
  * RSS

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/feed/>

  * Subscribe

    <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/dssSubscribe.aspx?pid=22>

    <#>
      o Manage Your Subscription <https://myaccount.mercurynews.com/>
      o All Access Subscriptions <http://www.bayareanewsaccess.com/>
      o Today’s e-Edition <http://mercurynews.ca.newsmemory.com/>
      o Newsletter Sign-Up <http://direct.mercurynews.com/mrc/mrcreg.action>
      o Mobile Apps <http://www.mercurynews.com/mobile/>
  * Contact Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/contact-us/>

    <#>
      o Corrections <http://www.mercurynews.com/news/corrections/>
      o Reprints <http://www.mercurynews.com/reprints/>
      o Archive Search <http://www.mercurynews.com/archive-search/>
      o Lottery <http://www.mercurynews.com/lottery/>
  * Classifieds

    <http://marketplace.bayareanewsgroup.com/marketplace/>

    <#>
      o Autos <http://www.norcaldrives.com/>
      o Jobs <http://www.mercurynews.com/jobs/>
      o Real Estate <http://realestate.mercurynews.com/>
      o Place an Obituary
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/obits/index.html>
      o Place a Legal Ad
        <http://bang.theadhawk.com/bang-adportal/legals/index.html>
  * Advertise With Us

    <http://www.mercurynews.com/advertise/>

    <#>
      o Today’s Ads <http://ads.mercurynews.com/>
      o Weekly Ads <http://www.mercurynews.com/weekly-ads/>
      o Local Guide <http://mylocal.mercurynews.com/>
      o Fry’s Ad
        <http://newspaperads.mercurynews.com/FSI/tiles.aspx?advid=200177&loc=53824>
      o Public Notices <http://capublicnotice.com/>

  * © 2016 Digital First Media <http://www.digitalfirstmedia.com/>
  * Site Map <http://www.mercurynews.com/sitemap.xml>
  * Copyright <http://www.mercurynews.com/copyright/>
  * Privacy Policy <http://www.mercurynews.com/privacy-policy/>
  * Arbitration
    <http://local.digitalfirstmedia.com/common/dfm/arbitration.pdf>
  * Powered by WordPress.com VIP <https://vip.wordpress.com/>
  * Bay Area News Group

    <http://www.bayareanewsgroup.com/>


      Email This Article

Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel

<#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

Quantcast
Quantcast
:)
