Thanks for checking out our new design, please let us know if you have
feedback
<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdOO_VWVDQBuiuRD1Fv-bPphJqfu9woDLdbDGn6cElU_mwtNA/viewform>


<http://sfist.com/>

<mailto:tips@sfist.com>

<https://www.facebook.com/pages/SFist/114102351977699>

<http://twitter.com/sfist>

<http://instagram.com/sfist>

  *

    SFist is a website about San Francisco


    View

    Pretty | Blog
  * Arts & Entertainment

    <http://sfist.com/arts>
  * Food

    <http://sfist.com/food>
  * News

    <http://sfist.com/news>
  * Popular

    <http://sfist.com/popular.php>
  * Advertising

    <http://gothamistllc.com/>
  * Contact

    <http://sfist.com/contact.php>
  * Newsletter

    <http://eepurl.com/yIS4z>
  * RSS Feed

    <http://sfist.com/index.rdf>
  * Staff

    <http://sfist.com/staff.php>
  * Our Cities

    <#>
      o Chicago

        <http://www.chicagoist.com/>
      o London

        <http://www.londonist.com/>
      o Los Angeles

        <http://www.laist.com/>
      o New York City

        <http://www.gothamist.com/>
      o San Francisco

        <http://www.sfist.com/>
      o Shanghai

        <http://www.shanghaiist.com/>
      o Toronto

        <http://www.torontoist.com/>
      o Washington DC

        <http://www.dcist.com/>
  *

    <mailto:tips@sfist.com>

    <https://www.facebook.com/pages/SFist/114102351977699>

    <http://twitter.com/sfist>

    <http://instagram.com/sfist>


  We've Been Talking About Homelessness Like It's New And Like It's The
  'Worst Ever' For 30 Years

by Caleb Pershan <http://sfist.com/author/Caleb%20Pershan> in News
<http://sfist.com/news>	on Jun 28, 2016 2:15 pm

sf-homeless-language-history.jpg
/Photo: Marc Flores <https://flic.kr/p/fJWVX5>

/

"The annual homeless crisis came to San Francisco early this year," the
Chronicle's Abe Mellinkoff wrote on October 16th, 1986. "Usually we
don't hear much about it until the weather really turns cold. It's so
much easier to feel for those without homes when we are snug inside
while winter's winds are blowing at the door."

Mellinkoff, who joined the Chronicle in 1935 and died in 1992, was
familiar with San Francisco's seasons and news cycles. "This latest
outburst of homelessmania revealed that our town, like others across the
country, is stumped by this social disease. The basic problem is that
nobody can agree on who is involved and how many there are. The latest
local figures range from an official low of about 5,000 to a maximum
double that, according to some social activists. To be safe, give or
take a few thousand at either end of the scale."

Mellinkoff's commentary, right down to those last figures, might as well
be contemporary. The editorial is particularly prescient this week due
to a concerted effort by the Chronicle and more than 70 other media
publications
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/27/sf_homeless_project_kicks_off_with.php>,
including this one, to cover homelessness as headline news and perhaps
shed a more complete light on a complex problem. But how we talk about
homelessness — the language we use, and the varying sensationalism with
which the topic is attacked — is itself a symptom of the societal
quandary it has presented since the media first began using the term
"homeless" in the 1980's.

Kevin Fagan, a current Chronicle reporter who has covered homelessness
extensively, kicked things off for the paper yesterday by arguing
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/overview/> — much as
Heather Knight did in a similar retrospective just two years ago
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/archive/item/A-decade-of-homelessness-Thousands-in-S-F-30431.php>
— that San Francisco's state of homelessness has been remarkably
consistent since about 1982
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/27/san_francisco_homeless_history_1982.php>
when the federal government defunded public housing.

In turn, coverage of the issue has also been a constant, though media
descriptions appear to waver between Mellinkoff's knowing, slightly
cavalier recognition of an ongoing problem and what he described as
"homelessmania," a language of emergency or alarm that might better
describe a sudden or temporary event. That second sentiment, a sense of
shock and shame, has been especially pitched during the frequent seasons
when so many other San Franciscans are prospering, "snug inside while
winter's winds are blowing at the door." If the problem homelessness is
not getting better as other aspects of San Francisco life appear to
improve, then the epidemic of homelessness must be getting worse — or so
the logic seems to go.

27711824582_559806b622_z.jpg
/Photo: izar decleto via Flickr
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/144236859@N08/27711824582/in/pool-sfistphotos/>

/

One of the first prominent articles about homeless people to appear in
San Francisco was a tabloid-style 1982 Examiner piece by Paul Shinoff
called "Nightmare In Wino Park." To write it, the reporter embedded
himself at one of San Francisco's first public shelters, pretending to
be homeless to observe and eventually criticize theft and drug use.

In 1983, and in part as a result of Shinoff's article, the place
referred to as "Wino Park," a vacant lot created by Glide Memorial
Church pastor Rev. Cecil William and officially called People's Park,
was closed and fenced off. "To be very honest with you," Williams told
the New York Times
<http://www.nytimes.com/1983/03/19/us/coast-experiment-fails-ending-a-people-s-park.html>,
"that article and two editorials in The Examiner helped me to look at
things... Then Mayor Dianne Feinstein came to me and said, 'I really
wish you would do something with that park.' Nobody pushed me or
pressured me. They let me work it out my way.''

Many, including the author of a 1982 edition of the Tenderloin Times
newsletter, found the "Nightmare" approach to be a sensational tactic
aimed at pearl-clutching law-and-order types. "Kind of conjured up
images of ax-murderers or shoot-outs," the newsletter reads. "The
article certainly raised some significant problems and issues, but you
never really got much of a feeling about the people of Wino Park."

Mocking a conservative strain of "throw out the bums" sentiment, as he
did in other satirical pieces like one called "Take Away The Homeless,"
Chronicle writer Arthur Hoppe skewered this rhetoric of the early
homelessness crisis. Further, to comment directly on media coverage of
poverty, his 1985 piece "So Long, Poor Folks," begins fittingly with his
narrator reading the news.

    "It was back in the summer of 1985. I put down the paper with a sigh
    and looked at my son, Mordred. 'It says here that our very own San
    Francisco is fast becoming a city of rich people.'' He said what I
    was afraid he'd say: 'Good,' he said. I frowned. 'You obviously
    don't understand, Mordred,' I said. 'This doesn't mean the poor
    people are becoming rich. It means they're moving out.' 'Good-by and
    good luck to them, Dad,' he said callously. 'It'll be a relief not
    to have to drive through their depressing slums, dodge their ugly
    cars or avoid their outstretched palms.' ''How can you say that,
    Mordred?' I said sternly. 'The poor provide diversity in our urban
    culture; they give us the perspective to realize how lucky we are;
    they test our generosity; and they imbue us with the guilt that
    makes us better human beings.'"

Two years earlier, the 1983 KQED documentary "To Have and Have Not,"
which is being recirculated this week
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/to-have-and-have-not-a-look-back-at-the-early-days-of-the-bay-areas-homeless-problem>,
drew a similar portrait, jumping back and forth, for example, from a
Silicon Valley Ferrari dealership to a homeless protest. At the time,
/Newsweek/ was pointing to a general recession, calling the season the
“The Hard-Luck Christmas of ’82.” “With 12 million unemployed and 2
million homeless, private charity cannot make up for federal cutbacks,"
the magazine wrote.

But the lives of homeless people did not necessarily improve with the
fates of the upper and upper-middle classes. Now, returning to his story
many seasons later, the documentary's maker, KQED's Stephen Talbot,
concludes that the Hard-Luck Christmas has endured into 2016.
"Thirty-four years after I first saw and filmed homeless people in the
City of St. Francis, I never expected to see this crisis still
festering, still unresolved," Talbot writes. "And I have the same
thought I had back then: We are a resilient, democratic, prosperous
society, but at what point does a city, a country, become so
economically divided that it tears itself apart?"

Whatever was in the air then and now according to Talbot was also
swirling about in 1991, as captured by an article in the New York Times
<http://www.nytimes.com/1991/08/26/us/san-francisco-mayor-in-tough-bid-for-re-election.html>
during former Mayor Art Agnos's reelection campaign. "Agnos now finds
himself in a bruising campaign for re-election, blamed by a cranky
electorate and four challengers for urban problems that will not go
away... Panhandlers seem to be multiplying on downtown street corners.
There is litter by the curbs and graffiti on the buses. Polls show that
residents of San Francisco are running out of patience with the homeless
and that suburbanites consider this a dirty, dangerous city and are
staying away." A supervisor at the time, Angela Alioto, observed that
"People have never been down and out like they are today. You can feel
the lack of morale in the streets."

Jumping ahead eight years later, in September 1999, Mayor Willie Brown
was calling homelessness an "intractable" problem. As he campaigned for
reelection he found himself in the predicament of choosing between a
temporary shelter constructed at Mission Rock to house some 600 homeless
during the previous year's El Nino winter, and city-owned land that was
needed to create 5,000 parking spaces for the under-construction AT&T
(formerly Pac Bell) Park. As the LA Times wrote at the time
<http://articles.latimes.com/1999/sep/12/news/mn-9317>, about 15,000
people in the city were homeless, the shelter lacked hot water, and it
was filled well beyond its 400-person capacity. By 2001, the Chronicle
was mocking Brown for his naive stance on homelessness. In a news piece
titled "Mayor loses rose-tinted sunglasses, filthy city, beggars
suddenly a problem," Ken Garcia wrote that "Brown, heretofore the lone
defender of the city's image as sparkling and shopping-cart free,
apparently saw the panhandlers through the trees and announced that
dirty streets and homeless people were part of the problem — no doubt
stunning the many merchants and residents who have been sounding that
theme since the beginning of the mayor's first term six years ago."

The experiences of both Agnos and Brown have strong parallels with Mayor
Ed Lee's predicament of the last six months. In San Francisco, the idea
that homelessness is both normal and the worst its ever been still
coexist, if unhappily.

While the SF Homeless Project, steered by the Chronicle, states its goal
as a "desire to stop calling what we see on our streets the new normal,"
it would appear a little late for that. Homelessness has been a glaring
fact of San Francisco life and politics for over three decades, and it's
not, in fact, new for journalists to propose their own solutions for the
problem. The Chronicle has done so, with success at times, before.

Consider "Shame of the City
<http://www.sfgate.com/news/article/SHAME-OF-THE-CITY-HOMELESS-ISLAND-They-live-2510831.php>,"
Kevin Fagan's Chronicle series that debuted in 2003, "How did this
happen? How did one of the most sophisticated and cultured cities in the
world come to have thousands of people existing in Dickensian
wretchedness on its streets?" Fagan was casting fresh light on a
seemingly worsening problem then, during an economic lull in the Bay
Area, just as former Mayor Gavin Newsom was about to take the reins.

"Over 20 years, a politically accepted, coordinated, consistent policy
has never emerged to solve the city's problem with hard-core
homelessness — now the worst in the United States," Fagan concluded.

Also in 2003, Fagan told the Christian Science Monitor
<http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Making-a-difference/Change-Agent/2012/0510/Journalist-Kevin-Fagan-looked-for-solutions-to-homelessness>
that he was able to affect change by proposing and reporting on
solutions, a theory that has been the Chronicle's battle cry in this
current effort. The best example of this is the The Homeward Bound
program <http://www.sfhsa.org/79.htm>, instituted by Newsom, who Fagan
says read articles of homeless people successful returning home to
family or friends.

Still, 13 years later, in announcing the Chronicle-led media effort, the
New York Times and Chronicle Editor Audrey Cooper touted the novelty of
solutions-oriented journalism. "We need to be a hell of a lot more
creative about how we solve this problem," Cooper told the paper
<http://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/16/us/san-francisco-homelessness.html?_r=0>,
"And we are probably going to have to break some dishes to do it."

But it was not without a touch of sensationalism that the Times chose
their lede for that piece — relaying Cooper's story of witnessing two
homeless people having sex in broad daylight in their tent, flaps open,
while she pushed her six-month-old in a stroller down the street.

It raises the question, particularly from homeless advocates, of why we
are still talking about homeless people as if they have no right to
exist on the street, and sensationalizing things like sex in a tent.
"What was she doing peeking in people's tents anyway?" asks Jennifer
Friedenbach of the Coalition on Homelessness, speaking to SFist. "Late
at night I've caught some glimpses of action myself, whether the people
were housed or not."

Friedenbach has been a noted, passionate thorn in the side of San
Francisco politicians for decades now, working at the almost 30-year-old
Coalition — which, in 2012, Supervisor Scott Wiener spoke of in the
Chronicle
<http://www.sfgate.com/bayarea/article/Jennifer-Friedenbach-champion-of-S-F-homeless-3045394.php>
saying it "has had a very, very negative impact on San Francisco's
ability to address homelessness in a meaningful way."

Friedenbach is quoted in almost every major article on the topic of
homelessness, advocating for the progressive view that while
homelessness may not need to be a normal, accepted fact of city life, it
also can't constantly be brushed aside as a scourge and a mess to be
cleaned up for the sake of wealthier residents' comfort. She serves as a
constant reminder to the media of the humanity of the individuals who
make up this larger "problem." As her husband, middle school teacher Joe
Condon, told the paper, "Jenny does not walk by a person asleep on the
street without checking to make sure they're breathing." He adds that
she's taught their sons to do the same, saying, "It's not a sense of
feeling sorry for them. [Our sons] look at us like, 'How are you going
to help that person? What are we going to do?'"

27618648842_d434df68ea_z.jpg
/izar decleto via Flickr
<https://www.flickr.com/photos/144236859@N08/27618648842/in/album-72157669766911666/>

/

That is perhaps a healthier "psyche for a city to have," as the SF
Homeless Project's open letter put it yesterday — one of care and a
desire to help, rather than one of constant shock and frustration at
"tent cities," needles on the street, and people having sex in tents.
But the language of politics, as many conservatives have proven, along
with not a few Democratic SF mayors, often is about getting "tough" with
sweeps and "cracking down" on illegal camps — or as Wiener more soberly
called the outlawing of any tents or shopping carts in Jane Warner Plaza
in 2012, "basic, common sense legislation."

Not every citizen has the energy or fearlessness to be checking to see
if every person they pass asleep on a sidewalk is still breathing. As
comes up again and again in the media, and from average people
interviewed on the street, we want the city to do this for us, for
politics or the police to make the "social disease" go away, to take
care of these "miserable souls" and keep them from lying on the sidewalk
in the first place — and to solve this "intractable problem" that is so
obviously "worse" than it ever was.

Just four months ago, the Chron's own sometimes conservative voice, C.W.
Nevius, took Friedenbach on directly
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/nevius/article/An-open-letter-to-Coalition-on-Homelessness-leader-6843309.php>
— not for the first time — with an open letter rejecting her "lone voice
of dissent" on a piece he wrote calling for a swift clearing of "the
tent city on Division Street [that] was frightening and intimidating
residents and merchants." While she tried to argue that vitriol against
homeless people and failures of policy were more to blame for the
encampment, Nevius was supporting the idea that it had gotten "out of
control," that the tent city was a health hazard, and he had received
numerous emails from fans of his column supporting his view. No doubt,
it was columns like this and the response they received that led Cooper
and her staff to feel a rising tide they wanted to address in a bigger
way in mid-2016. "I’m a columnist taking the pulse of the city," Nevius
wrote, "and when the city responds positively, it seems I’m doing my job."

He argues that the rising tide of negative sentiment now demands some
new policy that doesn't come from homeless advocates — though the policy
of shuffling tents from one place to another was criticized by many
people beyond Friedenbach, and there were, objectively, not enough
shelter beds or housing to relocate all those people. "I'd say the
coalition is in the minority," he wrote. "Your influence is outsize
partly because, in the interest of balanced journalism, we've made you
the voice of the homeless. And now when the homeless crisis is at a
peak, all you do is blame others for the plight of these people."

The "crisis" isn't at a "peak," though. The numbers, as far as we know
them <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/numbers/>, don't bear
this out — the peak was in the mid- to late 1990's, under the leadership
of Willie Brown, and has been relatively steady with less than half that
population for the last decade. Maybe what Nevius saw was simply a spike
in meth addicts in one area and their erratic behavior — Fagan's
retrospective this week cites Division Street as a recent nexus for
methamphetamine dealing and use.

Not to mention Nevius's crie de coeur might remind any longer-term
residents here of numerous similar columns from decades past. Take this
gem from the Chronicle's Carl Nolte in 2002: "At night, downtown San
Francisco looks like a casting call for 'The Night of the Living Dead.'"

Politics is driven by rhetoric, and when you have near annual cycles of
news writing that encourages the rhetoric of fear and frustration,
referring to homeless people as all like inhuman zombies, policy can be
accelerated and even shaped by it.

If we yell louder, reach out farther, or recount the numbers one more
time, will that improve a set of a policies that has consistently
resulted in a shortage of options for homeless people — even though we
have successfully housed 22,000 of them in the last 12 years?

The best thing that could come of this project, the bulk of which is set
to be published Wednesday, June 29, is to move the conversation beyond
"the worst it's ever been" or the brand new "new normal," and recognize
that just because our city is very pretty and rich, as cities go, this
isn't a unique problem that's grown out of anyone's control. And of
course it's solvable — which is true of many of society's deepest and
most complex failures, from education to systemic racism to widespread
poverty. Just as San Francisco's homeless problem wasn't formed in one
day, neither will it be solved in one. That's why people like
Freidenbach, and those at dozens of non-profits that the city helps
fund, work every day: So that someday, people in poverty or those with
mental illnesses won't be treated like problems, they'll just be treated.

/Jay Barmann contributed to this piece. More than 70 Bay Area news
organizations are participating in this media project that launches in
full June 29. Follow the SF Homeless Project on Facebook
<https://www.facebook.com/sfhomelessproject> and Twitter
<https://twitter.com/bayareahomeless>./


*Related:* Why San Francisco's Homeless Became A Problem In 1982
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/27/san_francisco_homeless_history_1982.php>
SF Homeless Project Kicks Off With Open Letter To The City, Look Back At
The Last 30 Years
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/27/sf_homeless_project_kicks_off_with.php>

Contact the author <http://sfist.com/staff.php> of this article or email
tips@sfist.com <mailto:tips@sfist.com> with further questions, comments
or tips.

  * homeless crisis <http://sfist.com/tags/homelesscrisis>
  * homeless encampments <http://sfist.com/tags/homelessencampments>
  * homelessness <http://sfist.com/tags/homelessness>
  * sf homeless project <http://sfist.com/tags/sfhomelessproject>
  *


    Other Interesting Stories

  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>  
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
by Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Sponsored Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links 
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=thumbnails-a:Below%20Article%20Thumbnails:>
.
Luxury Car Pro Shop
<http://www.luxurycarproshop.com/?search_track_url=http://trc.taboola.com/infospace-advertorials-sc/log/3/action?name=Conversion&item-url=http://luxurycarproshop.com&subid=taboola-395940&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=paid&utm_campaign=LuxuryCarProShopAdvertorial(desktop)&utm_term=gothamist-sfist&utm_content=Find+Great+Deals+on+Luxury+Sedans%21>Find
Great Deals on Luxury Sedans!Luxury Car Pro Shop
<http://www.luxurycarproshop.com/?search_track_url=http://trc.taboola.com/infospace-advertorials-sc/log/3/action?name=Conversion&item-url=http://luxurycarproshop.com&subid=taboola-395940&utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=paid&utm_campaign=LuxuryCarProShopAdvertorial(desktop)&utm_term=gothamist-sfist&utm_content=Find+Great+Deals+on+Luxury+Sedans%21>
Undo
Mosaic Home Solar Loans
<https://joinmosaic.com/blog/how-know-if-solar-right-your-home/?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>Thinking
About Putting In Solar Panels? Read This FirstMosaic Home Solar Loans
<https://joinmosaic.com/blog/how-know-if-solar-right-your-home/?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=referral>
Undo
Life&#39;d
<http://www.lifed.com/17-really-cool-alternatives-to-a-car/?source/taboola?utm_medium=referral&utm_source=taboola&utm_campaign=T17CarAlternatives5>Cheap
& Fun Alternatives To Commuting By CarLife'd
<http://www.lifed.com/17-really-cool-alternatives-to-a-car/?source/taboola?utm_medium=referral&utm_source=taboola&utm_campaign=T17CarAlternatives5>
Undo
Robb Report
<http://robbreport.com/watches/slideshow/5-most-complicated-wristwatches-world-slideshow?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=Watches-US-Desktop-Slideshows>The
5 Most Complicated Wristwatches in the World [SLIDESHOW]Robb Report
<http://robbreport.com/watches/slideshow/5-most-complicated-wristwatches-world-slideshow?utm_source=taboola&utm_medium=Watches-US-Desktop-Slideshows>
Undo
Wayfair
<http://www.wayfair.com/gateway.php?refid=tabwf30.NV0213&_site=gothamist-sfist>See
The Online Furniture Store That Has Retailers WorriedWayfair
<http://www.wayfair.com/gateway.php?refid=tabwf30.NV0213&_site=gothamist-sfist>
Undo
Your Daily Dish
<http://www.yourdailydish.com/galleries/stunning-celebrity-daughters/?utm_source=Taboola&utm_medium=gothamist-sfist&utm_term=ys&utm_content=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F3dd4ae8de33aea941e420bc4c30e1894.jpg&utm_campaign=Taboola_SCD>You
Won't Believe Who Gene Wilder's Daughter IsYour Daily Dish
<http://www.yourdailydish.com/galleries/stunning-celebrity-daughters/?utm_source=Taboola&utm_medium=gothamist-sfist&utm_term=ys&utm_content=http%3A%2F%2Fcdn.taboolasyndication.com%2Flibtrc%2Fstatic%2Fthumbnails%2F3dd4ae8de33aea941e420bc4c30e1894.jpg&utm_campaign=Taboola_SCD>
Undo
by Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>
Sponsored Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-a:Below%20Comments%20Thumbnails:>
Additional Stories
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/09/sunday_parker_interview.php>Meet Sunday
Parker, The Transportation Accessibility Advocate Tweeting Pictures Of
Piss In BART Elevators:…
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/09/sunday_parker_interview.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/03/09/ask_a_san_francisco_native_whats_yo.php>Ask
A San Francisco Native: What's Your Favorite Place To Get A Burrito?:
SFist <http://sfist.com/2016/03/09/ask_a_san_francisco_native_whats_yo.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/13/gang_jumps_and_beats_chinatown_pede.php>Gang Jumps
And Beats Chinatown Pedestrian: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/13/gang_jumps_and_beats_chinatown_pede.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2015/12/03/the_best_cheap_eats_in_sf_for_10_or.php>The
22 Best Cheap Eats In SF For $10 Or Less (That Aren't Burgers, Pizza,
Tacos, Or Burritos): SFist
<http://sfist.com/2015/12/03/the_best_cheap_eats_in_sf_for_10_or.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/15/valencia_street_cyclists_punch_and.php>Valencia
Street Cyclists Punch And Rob Woman Thursday: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/15/valencia_street_cyclists_punch_and.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/03/wiener_vs_kim_already_most_expensiv.php>Wiener
vs. Kim Already Most Expensive District 11 State Senate Race Ever: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/03/wiener_vs_kim_already_most_expensiv.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/01/13/the_best_hook-up_bars_in_sf.php>The Best
Hook-Up Bars In SF: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/01/13/the_best_hook-up_bars_in_sf.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/02/18/best_buffets_all_you_can_eat_san_fr.php>SF's 10
Best All-You-Can-Eat Deals: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/02/18/best_buffets_all_you_can_eat_san_fr.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/02/08/michael_pollan_questions_peoples_gl.php>Michael
Pollan Questions Peoples' Gluten Hate In New Netflix Series: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/02/08/michael_pollan_questions_peoples_gl.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/14/thieves_pilfering_mail_with_usps_ma.php>Thieves
Pilfering Mail With USPS Master Key Still On The Loose: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/14/thieves_pilfering_mail_with_usps_ma.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/28/best_pasta_san_francisco.php>The 13 Most
Delicious Pasta Spots In San Francisco: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/28/best_pasta_san_francisco.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/05/20/jumbo_747_definitely_going_to_burni.php>Jumbo
747 Definitely Going to Burning Man This Year : SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/05/20/jumbo_747_definitely_going_to_burni.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/30/apartment_sadness_2400_for_crap_stu.php>Apartment
Sadness: $2400 For Crap House In El Cerrito: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/06/30/apartment_sadness_2400_for_crap_stu.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/07/06/heres_what_employees_of_google_appl.php>Here's
What Facebook, Google, And Apple Employees Really Think About
Tech-Shuttle 'Hubs'…
<http://sfist.com/2016/07/06/heres_what_employees_of_google_appl.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/04/13/the_halal_guys_sf_ofarrell_review.php>The
Halal Guys In SF: An Admittedly Early Review: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/04/13/the_halal_guys_sf_ofarrell_review.php>
Undo
Sponsored Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>Sponsored
Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>
Promoted Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>Promoted
Links
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>
Additional Stories
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/09/sunday_parker_interview.php>Meet Sunday
Parker, The Transportation Accessibility Advocate Tweeting Pictures Of
Piss In BART Elevators: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/09/sunday_parker_interview.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/03/09/ask_a_san_francisco_native_whats_yo.php>Ask
A San Francisco Native: What's Your Favorite Place To Get A Burrito?:
SFist <http://sfist.com/2016/03/09/ask_a_san_francisco_native_whats_yo.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/13/gang_jumps_and_beats_chinatown_pede.php>Gang Jumps
And Beats Chinatown Pedestrian: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/13/gang_jumps_and_beats_chinatown_pede.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2015/12/03/the_best_cheap_eats_in_sf_for_10_or.php>The
22 Best Cheap Eats In SF For $10 Or Less (That Aren't Burgers, Pizza,
Tacos, Or Burritos): SFist
<http://sfist.com/2015/12/03/the_best_cheap_eats_in_sf_for_10_or.php>
Undo
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/15/valencia_street_cyclists_punch_and.php>Valencia
Street Cyclists Punch And Rob Woman Thursday: SFist
<http://sfist.com/2016/09/15/valencia_street_cyclists_punch_and.php>
Undo
by Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>by
Taboola
<http://popup.taboola.com/en/?template=colorbox&utm_source=gothamist-sfist&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=organic-thumbnails-b:Right%20Rail%20Thumbnails:>
  © 2003-2016 Gothamist LLC <http://gothamistllc.com/>. All rights
reserved. Terms of Use & Privacy Policy
<http://www.gothamistllc.com/mediakit/privacy_legal.php>.
