// Menu

  * Home

    <http://www.potreroview.net/>
  * Subscribe

    <http://www.potreroview.net/subscribe/>
  * Advertise

    <http://www.potreroview.net/advertise/>
  * Classifieds

    <http://www.potreroview.net/classifieds/>
  * Archives_//_

    <http://www.potreroview.net/archives>
      o Recent Archives

        <http://www.potreroview.net/archives/>
      o 1970 – 2009 Archives

        <http://www.potreroview.net/archives/1970-2009-archives/>
  * Contact

    <http://www.potreroview.net/contact/>

  *
    /

    / Facebook

    <https://www.facebook.com/The-Potrero-View-215367095174288/>
  *
    /

    / Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/thepotreroview>
  *
    /

    / Google+

    <https://plus.google.com/114104381102310369580/about>
  *
    /

    / Email

    <http://potreroview.net/>
  *
    /

    / Feed

    <http://potreroview.net/?feed=rss2>
  *
    /

    / Search

Go


    Logo <http://www.potreroview.net/>


      Serving the Potrero Hill, Dogpatch, Mission Bay, & SOMA
      neighborhoods since 1970

homeless


  What Constitutes a Neighbor: Homeless on the Hill

Published on June, 2016 in News
<http://www.potreroview.net/category/sections/news/> by Chris Block
<http://www.potreroview.net/author/chris-block/>

Last month the City dismantled a homeless encampment located at the knot
of streets that feed into Highway 101 and Cesar Chavez, scattering
upwards of 100 individuals into shelters and nearby neighborhoods. 
Prior to it being demolished, the /View/ spent time talking with the
homeless, the housed, park goers, and afterschool workers in and around
the makeshift camp.  While public urination and unsafe behaviors are
regular events in the area, so too is a peaceful coexistence that belies
the rhetoric that’s often heard about the homeless issue.

/The Hill is His Home/

Larry (Dutch) lives in a tent that he pitches in isolated spots, away
from populated encampments, mostly in the Mission or Potrero Hill.  The
/View/ encountered him near the Potrero del Sol/La Raza Skatepark, on
Potrero Avenue, where he was camping.  Sometimes his girlfriend joins
him; other times he’s alone.  Larry isn’t a “people person,” having
lived almost half of his 64 years in prison. 

Born in Petaluma, Larry entered the California Youth Authority in 1969,
when he was 17 years old.  Over the next 31 years he was incarcerated
upwards of a half-dozen times, often for robberies to support a
long-time heroin addiction.  He now takes Methadone, and is on a
priority list for senior housing, which, since he’s a San Francisco
resident who’s been homeless for more than a decade, he should secure by
the end of the year. 

Larry’s preference for isolation was honed, in part, by the many years
he spent in prisons’ “hole;” it’s a “part of me that the system
created,” he said. He’s tried shelters, but can’t sleep with so many
“untrustworthy” people around.  He regularly visits the Walden House’s
Bridge program, where breakfast and lunch is served, along with
treatment services for parolees.  He receives $70 a month in general
assistance, claiming he’d get $200 if he was housed, or “inside”.

“I get up very early and the first thing I do is sweep up my area around
the tent,” said Dutch.  Indeed, his camp was neat and orderly, with a
large broom parked nearby.  Despite his efforts to remain shipshape,
Dutch loses stuff all of the time, especially when he packs it up and
leaves it for the day; the San Francisco Department of Public Works
takes everything.  But, aside from that he doesn’t have problems with
the police or other City agencies.

Dutch performs on his guitar at a Bay Area Rapid Transit station
occasionally, making from $20 to $100 playing blues on his Fender.

/A Partially Peaceful Coexistence/

On a Sunday afternoon in April at Rolf Park, on Potrero Avenue and Cesar
Chavez Street, families were playing softball; a drumming group was
thrumming away in a far corner.  Across the street, at the Potrero del
Sol/La Raza Skatepark, young adults were shooting hoops on the
basketball court; skateboarders were practicing daring moves on the
concrete bumpers.  And, away from all the action, Mother Teresa’s
Missionaries of Charity was offering meals to anybody who wanted one,
attracting a long line.  The nuns also provided haircuts, and packages
of takeaway food.

A softball player, who lives nearby, said he’s hasn’t had any problems
with the homeless, though he knows people who’ve called the police in
response to the nearby encampments.  Homeless individuals make people
uncomfortable, he said, especially families with small children.  But he
worried that it “was a tough situation,” and was concerned for the
safety of people camping near the “Hairball,” as vehicles often sped by
fast, making it dangerous to cross the street.

According to another park visitor, who lives in the area, while it’d
gotten worse recently, the homeless situation has been going on for
twenty years.  He hadn’t had any particular problems. 

According to Jenny, who has lived adjacent to the park for many years,
“…these are not homeless families, they are people who have spiraled
down and are taking everybody else with them.”  While she doesn’t call
the police in response to the encampments, she’s had to clean up after
people who use her front yard as a bathroom.

The manager at Eristavi Family Winery, a boutique, ultra-premium cellar
located at 1300 Potrero Avenue, directly across from the skate park,
which opened earlier this year, has called the police a couple of times
in response to individuals dangerously loitering in the middle of the
avenue.  He worried about the homeless, but also is concerned about how
their presence might impact his business, though “…generally they are
harmless”. 

The owner of In & Out Auto Glass on Bayshore Boulevard has had to move
people out from the side of his business. A church goer at Igleasia Roca
De Salvacion, on 22nd Street, said that the homeless didn’t negatively
impact the church and didn’t pose a problem. 

/Doing the Impossible/

According to Amy Farah Weiss, of the Saint Francis Homeless Challenge, a
quote from Francis of Assisi guides her work:  “Start by doing what’s
necessary; then do what’s possible; and suddenly you are doing the
impossible.”   She interprets these instructions as suggesting that
society should provide for the basic needs of the homeless, regardless
of why they’re in that condition, which includes a secure place to sleep
and a bathroom. 

Weiss believes that it’s difficult to argue that everybody deserves a
home in San Francisco when teachers, nurses, and construction workers
are struggling to afford to live in the City.  But, she contends, it’s
much less controversial to assert that everyone should have access to a
bathroom and a place to sleep.

Weiss supports legislation proposed by District Nine Supervisor John
Avalos, based on similar ordinances in Seattle and Indianapolis, which
would create a policy for “a humane and strategic protocol to transition
people from encampments,” including providing access to  bathrooms and
garbage services.  Weiss argued that homeless individuals shouldn’t be
moved unless a shelter bed or a housing unit is provided.  She noted
that on any given day there are 700 people on the waitlist for 90-day
shelters, with a five week wait, and hundreds of people on the streets
who have given up on shelters due to delays in getting into them, or
because they have a pet, a partner, or don’t want to be constrained by a
curfew.

/One Possible Tactic/

For more than a year the City has operated a Navigation Center at 16th
and Mission streets, under a strategy in which those who are homeless
are recruited to spend several months before transitioning into
permanent housing.  The approach is service-intensive and higher cost
than typical shelters.  The individuals being cared for can bring
significant others, pets and their belongings. 

Recently, the City proposed opening an additional center at Warm Water
Cove, on 24th Street.  In response to opposition from Dogpatch
residents, last month the Mayor’s Office proposed an alternative site
located at the end of 25th street, near the Muni yard.  Both options are
now being considered.

  * Facebook

  * Twitter

  * Google

  * Pinterest

    <javascript:void((function()%7Bvar%20e=document.createElement('script');e.setAttribute('type','text/javascript');e.setAttribute('charset','UTF-8');e.setAttribute('src','http://assets.pinterest.com/js/pinmarklet.js?r='+Math.random()*99999999);document.body.appendChild(e)%7D)());>

//


      Advertisement

Subscribe-AD-web2.jpg <http://www.potreroview.net/subscribe/>


      Archives

  * November 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/11/>
  * October 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/10/>
  * September 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/09/>
  * August 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/08/>
  * July 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/07/>
  * June 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/06/>
  * May 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/05/>
  * April 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/04/>
  * March 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/03/>
  * February 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/02/>
  * January 2016 <http://www.potreroview.net/2016/01/>
  * December 2015 <http://www.potreroview.net/2015/12/>
  * November 2015 <http://www.potreroview.net/2015/11/>
  * October 2015 <http://www.potreroview.net/2015/10/>
  * September 2015 <http://www.potreroview.net/2015/09/>
  * August 2015 <http://www.potreroview.net/2015/08/>
  * July 2015 <http://www.potreroview.net/2015/07/>
  * June 2015 <http://www.potreroview.net/2015/06/>
  * May 2015 <http://www.potreroview.net/2015/05/>
  * April 2015 <http://www.potreroview.net/2015/04/>
  * March 2015 <http://www.potreroview.net/2015/03/>
  * April 2008 <http://www.potreroview.net/2008/04/>


      Categories

  * Announcements
    <http://www.potreroview.net/category/sections/announcements/>
  * Arts Calendar
    <http://www.potreroview.net/category/ongoing-features/arts-calendar/>
  * Community Calendar
    <http://www.potreroview.net/category/ongoing-features/community-calendar/>

  * Crime & Safety
    <http://www.potreroview.net/category/ongoing-features/crime-safety/>
  * Development <http://www.potreroview.net/category/sections/development/>
  * Editorial <http://www.potreroview.net/category/sections/editorial/>
  * Events <http://www.potreroview.net/category/sections/events/>
  * Features <http://www.potreroview.net/category/sections/features/>
  * Fiction <http://www.potreroview.net/category/sections/fiction/>
  * Get A Job
    <http://www.potreroview.net/category/ongoing-features/get-a-job/>
  * Letters <http://www.potreroview.net/category/ongoing-features/letters/>
  * Library News
    <http://www.potreroview.net/category/ongoing-features/library-news/>
  * News <http://www.potreroview.net/category/sections/news/>
  * News from the South Side
    <http://www.potreroview.net/category/news-from-the-south-side/>
  * Ongoing Features
    <http://www.potreroview.net/category/ongoing-features/>
  * Publisher's View
    <http://www.potreroview.net/category/ongoing-features/publishers-view/>
  * Reviews <http://www.potreroview.net/category/sections/reviews/>
  * Short Cuts
    <http://www.potreroview.net/category/ongoing-features/short-cuts/>
  * Uncategorized <http://www.potreroview.net/category/uncategorized/>


      Recent Posts

  * Trans Bay Cable Pumps Pittsburg Power into San Francisco
    <http://www.potreroview.net/trans-bay-cable-pumps-pittsburg-power-into-san-francisco/>

  * ‘Bottle Bill’ Author Says Recycling Law Hurts Small Businesses
    <http://www.potreroview.net/bottle-bill-author-says-recycling-law-hurts-small-businesses/>

  * Short Cuts <http://www.potreroview.net/short-cuts-16/>
  * We Must Reinvest for a Safe and Reliable BART
    <http://www.potreroview.net/we-must-reinvest-for-a-safe-and-reliable-bart/>

  * Why San Franciso Has a Homeless Problem
    <http://www.potreroview.net/why-san-franciso-has-a-homeless-problem/>
  * California College of the Arts Student Housing Approved
    <http://www.potreroview.net/california-college-of-the-arts-student-housing-approved/>

  * Data Provide Insight into Progress with Homelessness
    <http://www.potreroview.net/data-provide-insight-into-progress-with-homelessness/>

  * View Election Recommendations
    <http://www.potreroview.net/view-election-recommendations-4/>
  * At Rock Band Land, Kids Learn to Love the Process
    <http://www.potreroview.net/at-rock-band-land-kids-learn-to-love-the-process/>

  * BAE Systems Operates Largest West Coast Dry Dock at Pier 70
    <http://www.potreroview.net/bae-systems-operates-largest-west-coast-dry-dock-at-pier-70/>

  * Potrero Power Plant Site to be Developed by New Owners
    <http://www.potreroview.net/potrero-power-plant-site-to-be-developed-by-new-owners/>

  * Christopher’s Books celebrates 25th anniversary
    <http://www.potreroview.net/christophers-books-celebrates-25th-anniversary/>

  * Betty Packard Simplifies the Ballot, and Much More
    <http://www.potreroview.net/betty-packard-simplifies-the-ballot-and-much-more/>

  * Crime, Arrest and Conviction Trends Shift; Causes Remain Elusive
    <http://www.potreroview.net/crime-arrest-and-conviction-trends-shift-causes-remain-elusive/>

  * Book Review: Altamont by Joel Selvin
    <http://www.potreroview.net/book-review-altamont-by-joel-selvin/>
  * Community Calendar, November
    <http://www.potreroview.net/community-calendar-november/>
  * Carpet Chronicles VII
    <http://www.potreroview.net/carpet-chronicles-vii/>
  * Gold, Chapter Sixteen
    <http://www.potreroview.net/gold-chapter-sixteen/>
  * Enola Maxwell Likely to Continue as School Site
    <http://www.potreroview.net/enola-maxwell-likely-to-continue-as-school-site/>

  * Products Locked Up at Potrero Center Safeway, as City Battles
    Property Crime
    <http://www.potreroview.net/products-locked-up-at-potrero-center-safeway-as-city-battles-property-crime/>



Post navigation

//Previous Story Previous post: Animal Care and Control Eager for New
Shelter
<http://www.potreroview.net/animal-care-and-control-eager-for-new-shelter/>
Next Story// Next post: California College of the Arts to Build 200-Bed
Apartment Complex, 400-Bed Dorm
<http://www.potreroview.net/california-college-of-the-arts-to-build-200-bed-apartment-complex-400-bed-dorm/>


      Latest from News

Placeholder
/

/
<http://www.potreroview.net/trans-bay-cable-pumps-pittsburg-power-into-san-francisco/>


November, 2016


      Trans Bay Cable Pumps Pittsburg Power into San Francisco
      <http://www.potreroview.net/trans-bay-cable-pumps-pittsburg-power-into-san-francisco/>

In 1998, a construction crew error disrupted a Pacific Gas and Electric

Placeholder
/

/
<http://www.potreroview.net/bottle-bill-author-says-recycling-law-hurts-small-businesses/>


November, 2016


      ‘Bottle Bill’ Author Says Recycling Law Hurts Small Businesses
      <http://www.potreroview.net/bottle-bill-author-says-recycling-law-hurts-small-businesses/>

As reported by the View last July in “Recycling Requirements Continue to
Threaten

Placeholder
/

/
<http://www.potreroview.net/california-college-of-the-arts-student-housing-approved/>


November, 2016


      California College of the Arts Student Housing Approved
      <http://www.potreroview.net/california-college-of-the-arts-student-housing-approved/>

Last month, the San Francisco Planning Commission voted seven to zero to

Placeholder
/

/
<http://www.potreroview.net/data-provide-insight-into-progress-with-homelessness/>


November, 2016


      Data Provide Insight into Progress with Homelessness
      <http://www.potreroview.net/data-provide-insight-into-progress-with-homelessness/>

In a series of articles this year, the View reported that the

Placeholder
/

/ <http://www.potreroview.net/view-election-recommendations-4/>

November, 2016


      View Election Recommendations
      <http://www.potreroview.net/view-election-recommendations-4/>

Candidates President and Vice President:  Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine
United States

  * // Facebook

    <https://www.facebook.com/The-Potrero-View-215367095174288/>
  * // Twitter

    <https://twitter.com/thepotreroview>
  * // Google+

    <https://plus.google.com/114104381102310369580/about>
  * // Email

    <http://potreroview.net/>
  * // Feed

    <http://potreroview.net/?feed=rss2>

/

/

All rights reserved. Copyright © 2015 The Potrero View.

Go to Top

