Top highlight
Homepage <https://medium.com/>
The California Sunday Magazine
<https://medium.com/the-california-sunday-magazine?source=logo-lo_c9c5f5ebb63f---411bc08061cb>
Follow
<https://facebook.com/californiasunday>
Sign in / Sign up
<https://medium.com/m/signin?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fthe-california-sunday-magazine%2Ftaking-stock-de8832c9caa6%3Fsource%3Duser_profile---------11--------->
Next story


        Is it time to end mandatory minimum sentences? Plenty of
        lawmakers think so.

<https://medium.com/aj-news/is-it-time-to-end-mandatory-minimum-sentences-plenty-of-lawmakers-think-so-78b512e8473a?source=read_next_metabar----------40>
44
2

  * Share
  *
    44

  *
*

Go to the profile of California Sunday

<https://medium.com/@californiasunday?source=post_header_lockup>
California Sunday
<https://medium.com/@californiasunday?source=post_header_lockup>BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Stories and photographs from California, the West, Asia, and Latin America.
Jun 28

------------------------------------------------------------------------


  Taking Stock


    The city has been sweeping up homeless encampments and confiscating
    belongings. We asked youth what they carry with them.

/Photographs by Rian Dundon
Text by Lauren Smiley
Audio by Amy Standen/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

/This is a part of //our photography series on youth homelessness/
<https://medium.com/@californiasunday/5f9d450e4fc2>/for the SF Homeless
Project. Learn about //parenting in a shelter/
<https://medium.com/@californiasunday/72e8aa7695a3>/, //being homeless
and LGBTQ/ <https://medium.com/@californiasunday/1855dfb807c5>/, and
//life on the road/ <https://medium.com/@californiasunday/15e292037c08>/./

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*The young homeless life* is, by necessity, one that spurns possessions.
“Money is evil,” says Gabrielle Wullschleger, a 19-year-old girl who,
until recently, slept in Golden Gate Park. “When you’re inside, you’re
more materialistic.”

Americans constantly discard the detritus of their country’s wealth, and
in a boomtown like today’s San Francisco, it’s easy come, easy go. Trash
bins yield old laptops and cellphones to be used or sold to fencers.
Panhandling can net $40 on a good day on Market Street. Urban
hunter-gatherers rifle through the “as is” cartons of clothes at
Goodwill, $2 a pound. The Social Security office will hook you up with
an Obama Phone — a government-subsidized acknowledgment that a phone is
almost essential for survival.

But alongside this abundance is a city-imposed scarcity created by
policies that seize belongings from homeless while doing little to solve
the problem of having nowhere to keep them. Mayor Ed Lee mandated
high-profile sweeps of encampments on Division Street (after homeless
were forced to go there during the Super Bowl) and in the Mission (after
a homeless man was shot dead there by the police).

Hear homeless youth talk about the possessions they carry

A recent study by University of California researchers and the Coalition
on Homelessness surveyed 351 homeless people in the city, finding that
46 percent had had things confiscated, and 38 percent had had their
belongings destroyed by the city. Homeless people have pressed
successful suits in small-claims courts for years, and, after recent
sweeps, the ACLU and others issued Lee a demand letter to stop what they
called illegal confiscation of personal property. If the mayor doesn’t
respond with a new policy, the groups say they’ll sue.

In June, seemingly in response, moderate San Francisco supervisor Mark
Farrell introduced a ballot measure for the November election proposing
that the city create a policy banning encampments so long as the city
gives 24 hours’ notice and offers an alternative-housing option.
Progressive supervisors are countering that the shelters are maxed out
and that there’s nowhere to send the campers.

Kirk Richard, a homeless man who looks to be in his 20s, lost the Ford
Ranger he’d been living in to city impoundment. “The worst thing that I
lost? Probably family artwork, shiny rocks, family silver.” The city
gave him the option to pick up his car, but with all his parking
tickets, he decided to cut the loss. “It sucks that the possessions went
missing,” Richard says. “But you know, they’re just possessions.”

At the top of the list of many young homeless people’s most prized
possessions are their dogs: dogs better cared for than their owners,
puppies stored in backpacks worn over stomachs BabyBjörn-style. They are
companions, and especially for the young itinerant types, sometimes
their only one. “It’s nice to have someone to snuggle with,” one
20-something former camper tells me about his puppy, Steely. “It’s
safer, and no matter how bad your day was, he still wants love.” There’s
an economic perk, too — when panhandling, you can net three times as much.

The things young people carry are a mix of necessity and comfort. 
 A portable cellphone charger for the times when there is no outlet. A
tablet to study Linux, hoping it will lead to a gig as a systems
administrator. A diary of etchings. Pokémon miniatures. A young couple’s
shared earrings — one of the pair in each of their ears. Stuff is on
homeless people’s minds all the time: the ebb and flow of it, the finds
and the inevitable losses. A scrawl of writing on Division Street
reveals a dirge for the city’s recent plundering:

NEIL, THE COPS CAME AND TOOK EVERYONE’S STUFF. SORRY.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Michael, 24, carries headphones, highlighters, condoms, soap, a ribbon,
some broken glasses that serve as a mirror, and half an Italian
sandwich. He keeps a pair of stones in his jacket pocket.

Michael’s journal

Harley met his wife, Gabrielle, hitchhiking. They list a marriage
license, clothes, food, journals, dog stuff, and weed equipment among
their belongings.

Useful items are often found on or near trash bins.

Many homeless youth have phones, tablets, and other tech to stay in touch.

The park rangers will cruise the bluffs overlooking Ocean Beach to evict
overnight campers.

Jeremiah carries his Bible, in which he keeps a silk orchid.

Stony, 20, lives in a car with her boyfriend and their three dogs.

Shay with his dog, Sour Cream. Many homeless youth say their dogs are
their dearest companions.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<https://medium.com/@californiasunday/1855dfb807c5>

<https://medium.com/@californiasunday/72e8aa7695a3>

<https://medium.com/@californiasunday/15e292037c08>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Rian Dundon* is a photographer based in Oakland. His most recent book,
/FAN/, is a visual memoir of China’s celebrity-industrial complex. He
teaches documentary photography at the San Francisco Art Institute.

*Lauren Smiley* is a San Francisco journalist covering how the tech boom
has changed the city.

*Amy Standen* is a podcast producer and radio reporter based in San
Francisco.

San Francisco <https://medium.com/tag/san-francisco?source=post>Homeless
<https://medium.com/tag/homeless?source=post>Photography
<https://medium.com/tag/photography?source=post>SFHomelessProject
<https://medium.com/tag/sfhomelessproject?source=post>
44
2
#
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Go to the profile of California Sunday

<https://medium.com/@californiasunday?source=footer_card>


      California Sunday <https://medium.com/@californiasunday>

Stories and photographs from California, the West, Asia, and Latin America.

#
Follow
The California Sunday Magazine

<https://medium.com/the-california-sunday-magazine?source=footer_card>


      The California Sunday Magazine
      <https://medium.com/the-california-sunday-magazine?source=footer_card>

Stories from California, the West, Asia, and Latin America.

<https://medium.com/the-california-sunday-magazine/backstage-wendy-macnaughton-868102e94b58?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
More on San Francisco from The California Sunday Magazine
Backstage

<https://medium.com/the-california-sunday-magazine/backstage-wendy-macnaughton-868102e94b58?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
Go to the profile of California Sunday

<https://medium.com/@californiasunday>
California Sunday
<https://medium.com/@californiasunday?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
4
<https://medium.com/@hilella/katherine-lehr-is-matter-studios-new-coo-d2ce67596502?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-40>
Related reads
Katherine Lehr is Matter Studios’ new COO

<https://medium.com/@hilella/katherine-lehr-is-matter-studios-new-coo-d2ce67596502?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-40>
Go to the profile of Hillary Frey

<https://medium.com/@hilella>
Hillary Frey
<https://medium.com/@hilella?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-40>
23
<https://medium.com/cuepoint/patti-smith-jefferson-airplane-ushered-us-through-the-summer-of-love-614348cc7e46?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Also tagged San Francisco
Patti Smith: Jefferson Airplane Ushered Us Through the Summer of Love

<https://medium.com/cuepoint/patti-smith-jefferson-airplane-ushered-us-through-the-summer-of-love-614348cc7e46?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Go to the profile of Recording Academy

<https://medium.com/@RecordingAcad>
Recording Academy
<https://medium.com/@RecordingAcad?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
31
Responses
Write a response…
Unknown user
No responses yet
Show all responses

×

Don’t miss California Sunday’s next story
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
California SundayCalifornia Sunday
