KQED Menu

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Menu

    <#>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs & Blogs

        <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Special Coverage

        <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs <#> Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California


  KQED News <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

Search

<#search-container>


  KQED News Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Search for:

News Fix <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>


  What Happens When One Working Family Becomes Homeless

The Acur family gets a slice of normalcy in temporary housing in San
Mateo after sleeping in their van and on a garage floor.

The Aucar family gets a slice of normalcy in temporary housing in San
Mateo after sleeping in their van and on a garage floor. (/Beth
Willon/KQED/)

By Beth Willon <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/bwillon/>
June 30, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/what-happens-when-one-working-family-becomes-homeless/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/what-happens-when-one-working-family-becomes-homeless/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/what-happens-when-one-working-family-becomes-homeless/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/what-happens-when-one-working-family-becomes-homeless/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/what-happens-when-one-working-family-becomes-homeless/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/what-happens-when-one-working-family-becomes-homeless/?share=email&nb=1>
*

Karima Aucar is getting her hands dirty at a summer camp in San Mateo.
She dips them in a vat of clay and begins pounding. As she starts to
shape the clay into a turtle, her dad, Shauky Aucar, hovers over her
before leaving for work at UCSF Medical Center.

On the surface this could be any day camp in the Bay Area. It’s full of
giggling kids dressed in Warriors T-shirts and sneakers. But the reality
is that Karima and the other kids here aren’t your typical carefree
campers. They live just a few feet away in transitional housing provided
by LifeMoves <http://lifemoves.org/> for mostly low-income working families.

The apartment and day camp are a slice of normalcy for Karima, who was
sleeping on a garage floor with her family just a few months ago.

*Homelessness is a complex issue. Learn more >>
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>*sfproject3
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>

“Well, it’s like better than sleeping on a cold floor,” says the
13-year-old. “I had to wake up on my birthday sleeping on the floor, and
I didn’t get to celebrate it because my parents didn’t have any money.
It was hard.”

The Aucar family still feels raw after abruptly losing their stable
home. In December 2015, Aucar says they got pushed out their
$2,400-a-month rental.

“Everything started when we were living in Daly City for 10 years and
the landlord went to sell the house,” says Shauky Aucar.

Aucar, his wife and seven children moved into his mother-in-law’s studio
apartment nearby but the neighbors quickly complained. They then slept
in the family’s large van until it got so cold they ended up back at his
mother-in-law’s place. This time they were sleeping in the garage. They
had to hide like outlaws, getting up early and returning late at night
so the neighbors didn’t complain.

“I don’t think this is the American Dream,” says Aucar. “I saw my kids
on the ground and I said, ‘I don’t want this future for them.’ ”

Aucar coped with the upheaval by keeping his routine, going to work
every day. He says he has worked full time at UCSF for 23 years, taking
people in and out of surgery.

He also continued taking his 20-year-old daughter, Anshi Aucar, to
community college so she can be the first family member to graduate from
college. She has aspirations of going to medical school after she gets
her degree in respiratory therapy. But there’s little doubt that being
homeless has taken its toll on her.

“There are some people who were like, ‘Oh wow, you’re homeless,’ and
there’s always that one person who’s going to be like judgeful,”
says Anshi. “It’s life. Life happens and even though I didn’t want this
to happen to my family, I didn’t wish it to anyone else neither.”

But homeless outreach advocates say more and more people are having the
same experience — which is why cities in San Mateo and Santa Clara
counties are launching new efforts to find, count and help people they
call the hidden homeless.

Sabrina Delgado - a homeless outreach team leader is helping a woman
living out of her car in Redwood City get temporary housing in San Jose.
Sabrina Delgado, a homeless outreach team leader, is helping a woman
living out of her car in Redwood City get temporary housing in San Jose.
(Beth Willon/KQED)

Sabrina Delgado walks the streets in San Mateo County as a Homeless
Outreach Team leader for LifeMoves, the organization that found
temporary housing for the Aucars. She says it’s not easy to find the
people they are trying to count.

“Because they’re at work,” says Delgado. “So we can have a couple, and
both are working minimum wage jobs. And so, even combining the two
incomes together, they can’t make the rents in the Bay area.”

Teachers, police or neighbors often refer people to groups like
LifeMoves, says Brian Greenberg, vice president of programs and services
for the nonprofit.

“A second- or third-grader will go to their teacher because they have no
ego and say, ‘We’re homeless, we’re living in a car,’ ” says Greenberg.

Greenberg says there are more than 8,000 homeless people in Santa Clara
and San Mateo
<https://hsa.smcgov.org/sites/hsa.smcgov.org/files/2015%20SMC%20Homeless%20Count%20%20Final%20Report.pdf>counties,
with San Jose
<http://www.mercurynews.com/bay-area-news/ci_30070297/san-jose-council-oks-controversial-homeless-housing-project>having
the largest homeless population. He expects the number of working
homeless people to grow.

“Service-sector jobs on the Peninsula and in Silicon Valley don’t pay
that much more than other parts of the country, but the price of housing
obviously is outstanding here,” says Greenberg.

Aucar says that after working his entire adult life, he never thought he
would wind up in temporary housing — much less sleeping in the family
van or on a garage floor — with no guarantee of finding affordable
housing again. LifeMoves is doing everything possible to place the
family in permanent housing, but Aucar knows the family has a limited
amount of time before they have to move on.

“A little scared about what happens after we finish the program here.
Where we are going to go?” says Aucar. “Are we going to end up in the
car again?”

For a man who tries to do everything right for his family, Aucar now
knows how quickly the bottom can drop out.

Explore: Housing <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>, News
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/news/>, San Mateo County
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/san-mateo-county/>, Santa Clara County
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/santa-clara-county/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/what-happens-when-one-working-family-becomes-homeless/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/what-happens-when-one-working-family-becomes-homeless/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/what-happens-when-one-working-family-becomes-homeless/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/what-happens-when-one-working-family-becomes-homeless/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/what-happens-when-one-working-family-becomes-homeless/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/what-happens-when-one-working-family-becomes-homeless/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

1 Comment
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/what-happens-when-one-working-family-becomes-homeless/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related

Homelessness More Complex Since San Jose Shut Down 'The Jungle'

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/29/homelessness-more-complex-since-san-jose-shut-down-the-jungle>

Profiteering Masquerades as Medical Care for Injured California Workers

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/04/25/profiteering-masquerades-as-medical-care-for-injured-california-workers>

Berkeley High Struggles With Illegal Student Enrollment

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2014/04/23/berkeley-high-struggles-with-illegal-enrollment-by-students-not-living-in-the-distric/>

Latest to Be Displaced in San Francisco's Tech Boom: Art Galleries

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2014/02/24/art-galleries-displaced-amid-san-francisco-tech-boom>

California Wheezing: Spike In Ozone Levels Causing Breathing Problems

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/08/12/california-wheezing-spike-in-ozone-levels-causing-breathing-problems/>

S.F. Homeless Problem Looks the Same as It Did 20 Years Ago

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/endless-efforts-meager-results>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


    Author


      Beth Willon

Beth Willon is a senior reporter for KQED's Silicon Valley News Desk in
San Jose. (@KQEDNews )

We cover more than technology from San Jose to the Peninsula.

@BethWillon

View all posts by this author <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/author/bwillon/>


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>


  Post navigation

Prev Selling Landlords on Formerly Homeless Tenants

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/selling-landlords-on-formerly-homeless-tenants/>
Next Golden Gate Bridge Tolls Going Up by a Quarter on Friday

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/30/golden-gate-bridge-tolls-going-up-by-a-quarter-on-friday/>



  About KQED

  * About <http://www.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://www.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://www.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://www.kqed.org/about/help/index.jsp>


  Follow KQED News

  * Follow Us on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KQEDnews>
  * Follow Us on Twitter <https://twitter.com/kqednews>
  * Connect on Instagram <http://instagram.com/kqednews>
  * Connect on Google+ <https://plus.google.com/117185877001714843452/posts>
  * Connect on YouTube <https://www.youtube.com/user/KQEDnews>

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

[blank image]
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.


  Get the facts!

Close

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil
:)
