KQED Menu

  *


      KQED Arts

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>

  * KQED Arts Menu

    <#>

  * KQED Arts Home

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Books

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/literature/>
      o Comedy

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/comedy/>
      o Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/culture/>
      o Dance

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/dance/>
      o Digital Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/digitalarts/>
      o Fashion/Design

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/design/>
      o Movies

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/music/>
      o News

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/news/>
      o Performance Art

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/performance/>
      o Pop Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/popculture/>
      o Theater

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/theater/>
      o TV

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/tv/>
      o Visual Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/visualarts/>
  * Programs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs

        <#>
      o Art School

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/artschool/>
      o The Bay Bridged

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/affiliates/the-bay-bridged/>
      o Culture Cue

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/culture-cue/>
      o The Do List

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
      o Earful

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/earful/>
      o Film School Shorts

        <http://blogs.kqed.org/filmschoolshorts/>
      o ImageMakers

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/imagemakers/>
      o Into the Mix

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/into-the-mix/>
      o KQED Pop

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/pop/>
      o Spark

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/spark/>
      o Truly CA

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/trulyca/>
  * Specials

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Specials

        <#>
      o Arts Education

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-in-education/>
      o Arts + Social Issues

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-plus-social-issues/>
      o pARTicipate

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/participate/>
      o Priced Out

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/pricedout/>
      o Our Creative Nature

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/our-creative-nature/>
      o Fall Arts Guide

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/fall-arts-guide-2016/>
  * The Do List

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
  * Videos

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/videos/>

  *


      KQED Arts

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>

  * KQED Arts Home

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Books

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/literature/>
      o Comedy

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/comedy/>
      o Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/culture/>
      o Dance

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/dance/>
      o Digital Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/digitalarts/>
      o Fashion/Design

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/design/>
      o Movies

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/music/>
      o News

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/news/>
      o Performance Art

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/performance/>
      o Pop Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/popculture/>
      o Theater

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/theater/>
      o TV

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/tv/>
      o Visual Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/visualarts/>
  * Programs

    <#>
      o Art School

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/artschool/>
      o The Bay Bridged

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/affiliates/the-bay-bridged/>
      o Culture Cue

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/culture-cue/>
      o The Do List

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
      o Earful

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/earful/>
      o Film School Shorts

        <http://blogs.kqed.org/filmschoolshorts/>
      o ImageMakers

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/imagemakers/>
      o Into the Mix

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/into-the-mix/>
      o KQED Pop

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/pop/>
      o Spark

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/spark/>
      o Truly CA

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/trulyca/>
  * Specials

    <#>
      o Arts Education

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-in-education/>
      o Arts + Social Issues

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-plus-social-issues/>
      o pARTicipate

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/participate/>
      o Priced Out

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/pricedout/>
      o Our Creative Nature

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/our-creative-nature/>
      o Fall Arts Guide

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/fall-arts-guide-2016/>
  * The Do List

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
  * Videos

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/videos/>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California


  KQED Arts <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>

Search

<#search-container>


  KQED Arts Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Search for:

Arts + Social Issues
<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-plus-social-issues/>


  Why Art-Making is Essential to the Tenderloin’s Homeless Population

Hospitality House's community arts center at Market and 6th Street in
San Francisco's Mid-Market neighborhood offers art classes to people who
are homeless

Hospitality House's community arts center at Market and 6th Street in
San Francisco's Mid-Market neighborhood offers art classes to people who
are homeless (/Photo: Cy Musiker/KQED/)

By Cy Musiker <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/author/cmusiker/>
June 29, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/why-art-making-is-essential-to-the-tenderloins-homeless-population/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/why-art-making-is-essential-to-the-tenderloins-homeless-population/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/why-art-making-is-essential-to-the-tenderloins-homeless-population/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/why-art-making-is-essential-to-the-tenderloins-homeless-population/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/why-art-making-is-essential-to-the-tenderloins-homeless-population/?share=email&nb=1>
*

Jo Jackson <http://www.artlifting.com/collections/jo-jackson> is working
this sunny late spring afternoon on a series of small watercolors. “I
like to build colors,” Jackson says. “I’m making a sun shape first, so
that’s just an easy circular motion that’s so relaxing for me, then I
get very bold and add a bright red.”

Jackson is a thin white woman, often bundled in a sweater and scarf. For
years, she taught dance in Bolivia and Venezuela. But a series of
personal setbacks over the past few years left her living in a San
Francisco single room occupancy hotel (SRO), and then in a numbered bunk
bed in a Tenderloin women’s shelter.

Jackson especially likes making collages and working with paints. Art,
Jackson says, is both a form of expression and a kind of therapy. “Art
for me is like water, like a river,” she says. “And water is very life
giving and healing.”

Jo Jackson is currently homeless. She finds solace and inspiration at
the fine art classes she takes at Hospitality House in the Tenderloin
Jo Jackson is currently homeless. She finds solace and inspiration at
the fine art classes she takes at Hospitality House in the Tenderloin
(Photo: Cy Musiker/KQED)

Jackson values the free art studio provided by Hospitality House
<http://hospitalityhouse.org/>. The homeless services provider
is located in the mid-Market neighborhood near 6th Street, a fast
gentrifying part of the city.

It’s a busy place. As Jackson works on her painting, more than dozen
artists, most in living situations like Jackson’s, sketch with pastels
or paint with acrylics. A pottery wheel sits against a wall in the
studio, next to racks of paper and other supplies.

Hospitality House <http://hospitalityhouse.org/> has served the homeless
for nearly 50 years. The facility offers a men’s shelter, leadership
development workshops, and job training programs. It also offers the
only fine arts studio for the homeless in San Francisco, with more than
3,500 people using the space each year.

*How art helps homeless people*

When you’re lacking the basics of food and shelter, art might not seem
like a priority. Yet visitors to Hospitality House consider the creative
offerings essential to their existence. “The opportunity to create
should be open to everyone, whether you have a home or not,” says
Hospitality House executive director Jackie Jenks.

A collage Jo Jackson sold at silent auction at Hospitality house
A collage Jo Jackson sold at silent auction at Hospitality house (Photo:
Courtesy Jo Jackson)

Jackson, together with fellow Hospitality House artist Billy Crawford,
recently had an art opening at the space. They’re showing their work at
Hospitality House through Friday, Jul. 22. Jackson has sold a few
paintings, she says. And all the artists gets 100 percent of the
proceeds from sales of their work. Jenks says Hospitality House artists
made $16,000 last year.

Art has been an essential service for Hospitality House since 1969, two
years after its founding. “The walls can really seem to close in on you
in an SRO or a shelter,” Jenks says. “But here, they’re sharing the
beauty of what they can create and what’s in their hearts.”

*A common vision*

Hospitality House isn’t the only organization in the neighborhood that
offers opportunities for homeless people to tap into their creative
selves. Jackson is also a frequent visitor at The Healing Well, an
offshoot of the street ministry called Faithful Fools
<http://www.faithfulfools.org/>. The two organizations share a narrow
and cozy building on Hyde Street on the edge of the Tenderloin, where
they offer free poetry, yoga, meditation, and clowning classes.

“When I first got involved in this work, I thought, you’ve got to be
kidding,” says Kathy Curran, Healing Well’s founder and director.
“We’re offering classes like yoga and meditation, and art and poetry.
Shouldn’t we be helping these people find housing and get jobs?”

But Curran soon saw the value of Healing Well’s offerings. “I quickly
realized how important it is for people to have a place where they can
develop a sense of calm and confidence in coping with the trials of the
past and the opportunities of the future,” she says.

An art show in the window of the Community Arts Center at Hospitaity House
An art show in the window of the Community Arts Center at Hospitality
House (Photo: Cy Musiker/KQED)

Back at Hospitality House, Jackson puts her paintbrush in a cup of
water. Jackson has found temporary housing for the next three months.
She says should be okay, as long as she can continue to make art.
“Homelessness isn’t who I am,” Jackson says. “It happens to be something
I’m going through right now.”

Explore: Arts <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/arts/>, News
<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/news/>, audio
<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/tag/audio/>, feature
<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/tag/feature/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/why-art-making-is-essential-to-the-tenderloins-homeless-population/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/why-art-making-is-essential-to-the-tenderloins-homeless-population/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/why-art-making-is-essential-to-the-tenderloins-homeless-population/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/why-art-making-is-essential-to-the-tenderloins-homeless-population/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/why-art-making-is-essential-to-the-tenderloins-homeless-population/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

0 Comments
<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/why-art-making-is-essential-to-the-tenderloins-homeless-population/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related Posts from KQED Arts

San Francisco Arts Groups on Path to Becoming Property Owners

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2015/06/17/san-francisco-arts-groups-on-path-to-becoming-property-owners/>

Stanford's Virtual Reality Lab Cultivates Empathy for the Homeless

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/27/stanfords-virtual-reality-lab-cultivates-empathy-for-the-homeless/>

How Pottery Makes All the Difference to a Stressed-out, Milpitas Mother of 7

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/02/10/how-pottery-makes-all-the-difference-to-a-stressed-out-milpitas-mother-of-7/>

Kim Novak Opens Up: 'I Think I'm Appreciated More Now'

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/02/10/a-talk-with-kim-novak-i-think-im-appreciated-more-now/>

Arts and Homeless Groups Unite Behind Ballot Measure for More Funds

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/07/11/arts-and-homeless-groups-unite-behind-balllot-measure-for-more-funds/>

‘We Have a Right to Live Here’: Stories from San Francisco’s Evicted

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/we-have-a-right-to-live-here-personal-stories-from-san-franciscos-evicted/>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


    Author


      Cy Musiker

Cy Musiker co-hosts The Do List and covers the arts for KQED News and
The California Report.  He loves live performance, especially great
theater, jazz, roots music, anything by Mahler. Cy has an MJ from UC
Berkeley's School of Journalism, and got his BA from Hampshire College.
His work has been recognized by the Society for Professional Journalists
with their Sigma Delta Chi Award for Public Service in Journalism. When
he can, Cy likes to swim in Tomales Bay, run with his dog in the East
Bay Hills, and hike the Sierra.

View all posts by this author <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/author/cmusiker/>


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>


  Post navigation

Prev Five Songs for the Homeless: The Bay Area's Empathy on Record

<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/five-songs-for-the-homeless-the-bay-areas-empathy-on-record/>
Next Rob Wasserman, Masterful Upright Bassist, Dies After Brief
Hospitalization

<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/rob-wasserman-masterful-upright-bassist-dies-after-brief-hospitalization/>



  About KQED Arts

KQED Arts provides daily arts news, reviews and profiles for the San
Francisco Bay Area.

  * Contributors <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/contributors/>
  * Contact Us <mailto:arts@kqed.org>


  About KQED

  * About <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/>

Funding for KQED Arts is provided by The William and Flora Hewlett
Foundation <http://www.hewlett.org/>.

The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation <http://www.hewlett.org/>

Support is also provided by the Kenneth Rainin Foundation and the
members of KQED.

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

[blank image]
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.


  When you need an art fix!

Close

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil
:)
