/

/
// <https://www.facebook.com/48hills> // <https://twitter.com/48hills>
// <#>

  * News + Politics

    <http://48hills.org/news-politics/>
  * Arts + Culture

    <http://48hills.org/arts-culture/>
  * Music + Nightlife

    <http://48hills.org/music-nightlife/>
  * Politics <http://48hills.org/news-politics/>
  * Culture <http://48hills.org/arts-culture/>
  * Nightlife <http://48hills.org/music-nightlife/>
  * Search

    <http://48hills.org/search/>

// <#>
Search

Sponsored link
<http://48hills.org/linkout/17024>
// <#>
48 hills

<http://48hills.org/>

  * News + Politics

    <http://48hills.org/news-politics/>
  * Arts + Culture

    <http://48hills.org/arts-culture/>
  * Music + Nightlife

    <http://48hills.org/music-nightlife/>
  * Politics <http://48hills.org/news-politics/>
  * Culture <http://48hills.org/arts-culture/>
  * Nightlife <http://48hills.org/music-nightlife/>
  * Search

    <http://48hills.org/search/>

//

<#> // <#>

// <https://www.facebook.com/48hills> // <https://twitter.com/48hills>

  * Best of the Bay <http://48hills.org/sections/best-of-the-bay/>
  * Contact <http://48hills.org/contact/>
  * About <http://48hills.org/about/>
  * Newsletter <http://48hills.org/newsletter/>
  * Advertise With Us <http://48hills.org/advertise-with-us/>
  * Shop <http://48hills.org/store/>
  * Donate <http://48hills.org/support-donate/>

  * LOG IN

Welcome! Log into your account
Forgot your password? <#>
Recover your password
Home <http://48hills.org/> // News + Politics
<http://48hills.org/sections/news-politics/>

  * News + Politics <http://48hills.org/sections/news-politics/>


  Why are so many people homeless in SF?

It's our fault, for accepting a political and economic system that has
utterly failed

By Tim Redmond <http://48hills.org/author/tim/> -
Jun 27th

/Editors note: The SF Chronicle is leading an effort to get local news
media to report on homelessness this week. We are happy to be involved —
and to offer what we suspect is a very different perspective. Over the
next couple of days, we will run stories from people who know what it’s
like to be poor and homeless — and an analysis of how the city’s major
daily paper and its columnists and editorials have covered the issue.
For starters, here’s some perspective. View our full coverage here
<http://48hills.org/topics/homeless-project/>. /

I’m going to make a big political leap here and say that the reason
there are so many homeless people on the streets of San Francisco has
something to to with the reason that there are so many angry people in
this country (and in Britain) who are now voting against the establishment.

There’s a strong current of racism, homophobia, and xenophobia involved
(including Trump, the Brexit, and our approach to homelessness).
Consider the numbers of African American and LGBT, especially
transgender, people living on the streets in part because they are
unable to get jobs that pay enough to cover the rent. And keep in mind
that some of the complaints against homeless people originate with
cisgender white people who see our neighbors living on the street as a
“quality of life (for the rich) issue” (see: Ed Lee, Scott Wiener).

Most people on the streets need housing; they are victims of our city's
policies
<http://i1.wp.com/48hills.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/48hillshomelesscampdonna.jpg>
Most people on the streets need housing; they are victims of our city’s
policies. This picture of Donna was taken on Division Street before the
homeless sweeps earlier this year. Photo by Sana Saleem

But there’s something else going on, too (see: Bernie catching everyone
by surprise – and the apparently “stubborn” homeless numbers in SF). The
economic program that’s been in place in the United States and Britain
for the past several decades, which seeks to limit the role of
government, provide unlimited support for the private sector, and allow
wealth to accumulate at the top, has utterly failed.

You can call it “neoliberalism” or call it something else, but here, as
UK Guardian columnist George Monbiot notes
<https://www.theguardian.com/books/2016/apr/15/neoliberalism-ideology-problem-george-monbiot>,
are its main characteristics:

    Neoliberalism sees competition as the defining characteristic of
    human relations. It redefines citizens as consumers, whose
    democratic choices are best exercised by buying and selling, a
    process that rewards merit and punishes inefficiency. It maintains
    that “the market” delivers benefits that could never be achieved by
    planning.

    Attempts to limit competition are treated as inimical to liberty.
    Tax and regulation should be minimised, public services should be
    privatised. The organisation of labour and collective bargaining by
    trade unions are portrayed as market distortions that impede the
    formation of a natural hierarchy of winners and losers. Inequality
    is recast as virtuous: a reward for utility and a generator of
    wealth, which trickles down to enrich everyone. Efforts to create a
    more equal society are both counterproductive and morally corrosive.
    The market ensures that everyone gets what they deserve.

    We internalise and reproduce its creeds. The rich persuade
    themselves that they acquired their wealth through merit, ignoring
    the advantages – such as education, inheritance and class – that may
    have helped to secure it. The poor begin to blame themselves for
    their failures, even when they can do little to change their
    circumstances.

    Never mind structural unemployment: if you don’t have a job it’s
    because you are unenterprising. Never mind the impossible costs of
    housing: if your credit card is maxed out, you’re feckless and
    improvident. Never mind that your children no longer have a school
    playing field: if they get fat, it’s your fault. In a world governed
    by competition, those who fall behind become defined and
    self-defined as losers.

And that’s how we see housing and homeless policy in San Francisco.

For years, under Democratic mayors and boards of supervisors whose
members call themselves Democrats, in a city that has a reputation for
progressive politics, we have followed the neo-liberal line, to wit:

The private sector is the primary source of housing; in fact, anything
that slows the private sector is considered bad policy and
“anti-housing.” The developers, the speculators, and the real-estate
industry, who see housing not as a social good but as a commodity to be
sold for the highest possible profit, are allowed to determine what gets
built, for whom, and where.

People who are homeless must have done something wrong with their lives.
Even the rare sympathetic news media coverage focuses on drugs, mental
illness, crime, job losses … there is never the suggestion that people
who live on the streets are victims of a system that the political
leadership either helped create or tolerates.

Neo-liberalism has failed SF.
<http://i2.wp.com/48hills.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/48hilshomelessness-e1445292294427.png>
Neo-liberalism has failed SF. These protestors stood up for housing rights.

In reality, it is not the fault of the people who live on the streets;
it’s our fault for forcing human beings to live there.

City housing policy, such as it is, doesn’t determine housing policy in
San Francisco. Housing policy is set by international investment
capital, which might or might not fund any particular project at any
particular time
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/right-approvals-will-no-real-effect-housing-supply-sf/>
based on whether returns are higher somewhere else.

Related article  Major sunshine issue comes before obscure committee

<http://48hills.org/2016/08/15/major-sunshine-issue-comes-obscure-committee/>

It’s our fault for deciding that it’s okay to let the city’s policies be
driven by the private developers and the politicians they support. It’s
our fault for allowing great wealth to accrue at the expense of everyone
else.

It’s our fault for not managing to demand that housing in San Francisco
be treated as a human right, not as a commodity.

Under President Obama, the nation agreed that everyone should have
access to health care. The Affordable Care Act is deeply flawed, because
it’s still based on the needs of private insurance companies, but at
least, as a matter of philosophy, it recognizes that health care is a
universal right, not just a private commodity, and that people who can’t
afford insurance should get subsidies so that they can.

You don’t have to have a job or credit or a security deposit to sign up
for Covered California. The rates are too high, but with the subsidies,
they are better than what we had before. And if your income qualifies
you for a subsidy, you get it – automatically. It’s your right, by law.
There is no wait list for health insurance subsidies, no limits on how
many people can apply.

Again: We would be better off with single-payer, of course. We would be
better off under this system with price caps. But we have made the
statement as a society that everyone has a right to health care.

Not housing.

*Housing is a critical element in the physical and mental health of
human beings*. But there is no website where you can sign up and be
guaranteed, that same day, an affordable place to live. We haven’t made
that a priority.

The wait list for public housing is long. The lottery for affordable
housing allocates a limited supply to meet an extensive demand. You
can’t get even an unaffordable apartment without sterling credit, a
high-paying job and as much as $10,000 cash on hand for first and last
month and security.

The private sector builds no affordable housing unless it is forced to –
and even then, never enough even to meet the demand it creates. We are
falling further behind every day. And the solution, we are told by the
mayor and by the Chronicle and by so many others, is to simply do more
of the same.

The idea that more private development – even huge amounts of new
development, enough to transform much of San Francisco into mid-town
Manhattan – will ever create housing for the current homeless population
is worse than insane. It’s disgusting, because it allows political
leaders to avoid talking seriously about the problem.

The US spends 17 percent of its GDP on health care. San Francisco spends
about 3 percent of its budget on housing and homeless services. We’d
spend a lot less on homeless services if we spent more on housing.

But a neo-liberal set of solutions that rely on the private sector to
solve the problem are never going make a dent. We can see that from the
numbers: Since 1996, the city has approved 51,000 units of private
housing construction. The homeless count has stayed about the same.

Before the ACA was passed, when Washington would do nothing about
universal health care, San Francisco stepped up as a city and, with the
leadership of then-Sup Tom Ammiano, did its own version. HealthySF
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Healthy_San_Francisco> wasn’t perfect,
either, but it started with the idea that we could do here what the feds
and the state refused to do, and find a way to pay for it.

AffordableSF would start with the notion that housing, like health care,
is a human right, that it should not be based on ability to pay, and
that any system that doesn’t cover everyone isn’t a success.

How much social housing – that is, housing that is not controlled by the
private sector – could SF build in ten years if we said, as a matter of
policy, that every homeless person had the legal right to a place to
live? How much could we do if we decided that the great wealth in the
city should be taxed to help pay for it (instead of giving tax breaks to
big companies that create more of the problem)? What if all of the money
we spend on policing and sometimes shooting homeless people went to
building housing?

And what if, like heath care, our rule for housing and new development
was “first, do no harm?”

I had a conversation with a local developer recently who complained that
asking for 25 percent affordable housing would doom most new projects.
Okay, I said: If you can’t build it with that much affordable, maybe you
shouldn’t built it at all.

He was horrified, but I explained that anything below 30 percent
affordability actually makes the crisis worse
<http://48hills.org/2015/06/14/why-market-rate-housing-makes-the-crisis-worse/>.
And none of that new housing does anything for most of the homeless people.

Related article  The Chron's C.W. Nevius again gets the housing market
all wrong

<http://48hills.org/2016/09/21/15858/>

 

*Why are there so many people homeless in this city?* Why has nothing
seemed to work?

The stories you are going to be reading this week are going to make the
problem sound really complicated. And yes: there are issue with mental
health and substance abuse among many people on the streets. The
complete collapse in federal housing money that started with Ronald
Reagan and has continued ever sense (no, the Democrats didn’t restore
that money) has made the problem harder for cities.

But the main reason there were so few homeless people before the 1980s,
when the nation formally began to adopt trickle-down economics
(Republicans) and neo-liberalism (Democrats), is that poor people could
afford a place to live.

Check out this amazing piece by Steve Talbot, from 1982
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/to-have-and-have-not-a-look-back-at-the-early-days-of-the-bay-areas-homeless-problem>.

In San Francisco, if you were on SSI because of mental illness or
physical disability in 1980, you got around $600 a month. Rent was about
$100-$150.  With food stamps, you could stay off the streets and even
live a decent life.

Now, the same person might get $700 a month SSI. Rent is $1,200 a month
for a cheap room. The city used to give people welfare – actual cash
money. So did the state. Those went away under neo-liberal policies in
Sacramento (GAIN) and in SF (Care Not Cash). Bill Clinton did welfare
reform.

I knew a lot of people when I arrived here in 1981 who had all sorts of
issues that today would make them homeless. Back then, the government
gave them enough money to stay inside. We, as a city and a society,
thought that was important.

In the 1980s, city planning changed, as my generation and those that
followed gave up on the suburbs and moved to cities. That created a mass
gentrification wave as young professionals moved into “hip”
neighborhoods. The city could have responded then, by starting to take
housing out of the private market. But the neo-liberal Mayor Dianne
Feinstein vetoed effective rent control (a measure passed 7-4 at the
board, one vote short of an override, that would have kept rent controls
on vacant apartments, in essence using regulation to turn private
housing into permanently affordable housing). Then the state
Legislature, with neo-liberal Willie Brown in charge, outlawed that
approach.

Of course, the SFBARFers will ask: Why didn’t we build more housing in
the 1980s? But I was here, and I can tell you that we tried: The left,
the progressives, begged and cajoled and organized to demand that office
developers build housing for the new workers they were bringing to town.
But no: Investment capital ruled city planning then, as it does now, and
the quick money was in offices, so the private sector would build no
housing.

 

*So: We don’t give people enough money to pay the rent*. We don’t
regulate the rent effectively. We have utterly failed to do what needed
to be done – buy up and take off the market as much housing as possible
and build as much social housing as we can.

Sponsored link
<http://48hills.org/linkout/16675>

We spend a pittance on building housing that might work, and give zoning
favors to developers who build housing that doesn’t.

We live in a news media climate, even here in SF (thanks, Chuck Nevius)
that promotes the neo-liberal line that people without a place to live
must have done something wrong – they are “losers” — which empowers
politicians to continue with policies that protect the wealthy and fail
everyone else.

The Chron’s first story has this
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/overview/>:

    The city remains home to sprawling tent cities, junkies squatting on
    blankets shooting heroin, and all manner of anguished, destitute
    people and beggars holding out hands.

The message is that homeless people are different from the rest of us,
that it must be their fault that they squat on blankets (huh?) and hold
out hands. They are The Other, to be feared, and shunned, and patronized.

We have created this situation. And now we do a special project with
hundreds of stories that ask why, oh why, are there are so many homeless
people on the streets. Go figure.


Share this

  * 542Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)542
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/27/why-are-so-many-people-homeless-in-sf/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/27/why-are-so-many-people-homeless-in-sf/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/27/why-are-so-many-people-homeless-in-sf/?share=reddit&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/27/why-are-so-many-people-homeless-in-sf/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/27/why-are-so-many-people-homeless-in-sf/?share=linkedin&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pocket (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/27/why-are-so-many-people-homeless-in-sf/?share=pocket&nb=1>
  * Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)
    <whatsapp://send?text=Why%20are%20so%20many%20people%20homeless%20in%20SF%3F%20http%3A%2F%2F48hills.org%2F2016%2F06%2F27%2Fwhy-are-so-many-people-homeless-in-sf%2F>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/27/why-are-so-many-people-homeless-in-sf/?share=email&nb=1>
  * Click to print (Opens in new window)
    <http://48hills.org/2016/06/27/why-are-so-many-people-homeless-in-sf/#print>
*

  * TAGS
  * Activism

    <http://48hills.org/topics/activism/>
  * Brexit

    <http://48hills.org/topics/brexit/>
  * Economy

    <http://48hills.org/topics/economy/>
  * Homeless Project

    <http://48hills.org/topics/homeless-project/>
  * Homelessness

    <http://48hills.org/topics/homelessness/>
  * Housing

    <http://48hills.org/topics/housing/>

Tim Redmond <http://48hills.org/author/tim/>
Tim Redmond <http://48hills.org/author/tim/>
http://48hills.org <http://48hills.org/>
Tim Redmond has been a political and investigative reporter in San
Francisco for more than 30 years. He spent much of that time as
executive editor of the Bay Guardian. He is the founder of 48hills.
// <https://www.facebook.com/48hills/> //
<mailto:timredmondsf@gmail.com> // <https://twitter.com/timredmondsf>

Sponsored link
<http://48hills.org/linkout/16677>

More by Tim Redmond

 1.

    Developer allies again try to take over Sierra Club
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/28/developer-allies-try-take-sierra-club/>

 2.

    The Tom and Tim Show: No more Teflon
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/27/tom-tim-show-no-teflon/>

 3.

    The Agenda, Nov. 28-Dec. 4: An honest tenant scorecard
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/27/the-agenda-nov-28-dec-4-an-honest-tenant-scorecard/>

 4.

    Will SF destroy a stunning piece of LGBT history?
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/17/will-sf-destroy-stunning-piece-lgbt-history/>

 5.

    Dramatic vote could slow Mission development
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/16/dramatic-vote-slow-mission-development/>

More from this section

  *

    More than a million people in SF? Did anyone ask you?
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/28/17209/>

  *

    Developer allies again try to take over Sierra Club
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/28/developer-allies-try-take-sierra-club/>

  *

    The Tom and Tim Show: No more Teflon
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/27/tom-tim-show-no-teflon/>

  *

    The Agenda, Nov. 28-Dec. 4: An honest tenant scorecard
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/27/the-agenda-nov-28-dec-4-an-honest-tenant-scorecard/>

  *

    Standing Rock Diary: ‘I am honored to be a healer warrior’
    <http://48hills.org/2016/11/27/i-am-honored-healer-standing-rock/>


        BIG WEEK

Get our weekly newsletter

  *
    Email

  *
    First Name

  *
    Last Name

*

<http://48hills.org/>

ABOUT US
48hills.org is the official publication of the non-profit San Francisco
Progressive Media Company.
Contact Us <http://48hills.org/contact/>
Advertise <http://48hills.org/advertise-with-us/>
Contact us: info@48hills.org <mailto:info@48hills.org>

FOLLOW US
// <https://www.facebook.com/48hills> // <https://twitter.com/48hills>

  * Best of the Bay <http://48hills.org/sections/best-of-the-bay/>
  * Contact <http://48hills.org/contact/>
  * About <http://48hills.org/about/>
  * Newsletter <http://48hills.org/newsletter/>
  * Advertise With Us <http://48hills.org/advertise-with-us/>
  * Shop <http://48hills.org/store/>
  * Donate <http://48hills.org/support-donate/>

© 48hills
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

:)
