SF Homeless Project
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=logo-lo_c9c5f5ebb63f---6286c006a24b>
Follow
<https://twitter.com/bayareahomeless><https://facebook.com/sfhomelessproject>
Sign in / Sign up
<https://medium.com/m/signin?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fsfhomelessproject.com%2Fwhy-art-making-is-essential-to-the-tenderloins-homeless-population-8bb95728b01e%3Fsource%3D---------40--------->
Home <https://sfhomelessproject.com/>About
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/to-the-city-and-people-of-san-francisco-484764406408>How
you can help
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/help-guide/widget/index.html><https://sfhomelessproject.com/search>
Next story


        This drug can break opioid addiction. Why aren’t we using it?

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/this-drug-can-break-opioid-addiction-why-arent-we-using-it-124a75cc1a92?source=read_next_metabar----------41>
5

  * Share
  *
    5

  *
*

Go to the profile of KQED

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@kqed?source=post_header_lockup>
KQED
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@kqed?source=post_header_lockup>BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Your Northern California PBS and NPR Stations
Jun 28

------------------------------------------------------------------------


  Why Art-Making is Essential to the Tenderloin’s Homeless Population

*By Cy Musiker*

JoJackson <http://www.artlifting.com/collections/jo-jackson> is working
this sunny late spring afternoon on a series of small watercolors. “I
like to build colors,” Jackson says. “I’m making a sun shape first, so
that’s just an easy circular motion that’s so relaxing for me, then I
get very bold and add a bright red.”

Jackson is a thin white woman, often bundled in a sweater and scarf. For
years, she taught dance in Bolivia and Venezuela. But a series of
personal setbacks over the past few years left her living in a San
Francisco single room occupancy hotel (SRO), and then in a numbered bunk
bed in a Tenderloin women’s shelter.

Jackson especially likes making collages and working with paints. Art,
Jackson says, is both a form of expression and a kind of therapy. “Art
for me is like water, like a river,” she says. “And water is very life
giving and healing.”

Jo Jackson is currently homeless. She finds solace and inspiration at
the fine art classes she takes at Hospitality House in the Tenderloin
(Photo: Cy Musiker/KQED)

Jackson values the free art studio provided by Hospitality House
<http://hospitalityhouse.org/>. The homeless services provider is
located in the mid-Market neighborhood near 6th Street, a fast
gentrifying part of the city.

It’s a busy place. As Jackson works on her painting, more than dozen
artists, most in living situations like Jackson’s, sketch with pastels
or paint with acrylics. A pottery wheel sits against a wall in the
studio, next to racks of paper and other supplies.

Hospitality House <http://hospitalityhouse.org/> has served the homeless
for nearly 50 years. The facility offers a men’s shelter, leadership
development workshops, and job training programs. It also offers the
only fine arts studio for the homeless in San Francisco, with more than
3,500 people using the space each year.


      *How art helps homeless people*

When you’re lacking the basics of food and shelter, art might not seem
like a priority. Yet visitors to Hospitality House consider the creative
offerings essential to their existence. “The opportunity to create
should be open to everyone, whether you have a home or not,” says
Hospitality House executive director Jackie Jenks.

A collage Jo Jackson sold at silent auction at Hospitality house (Photo:
Courtesy Jo Jackson)

Jackson, together with fellow Hospitality House artist Billy Crawford,
recently had an art opening at the space. They’re showing their work at
Hospitality House through Friday, Jul. 22. Jackson has sold a few
paintings, she says. And all the artists gets 100 percent of the
proceeds from sales of their work. Jenks says Hospitality House artists
made $16,000 last year.

Art has been an essential service for Hospitality House since 1969, two
years after its founding. “The walls can really seem to close in on you
in an SRO or a shelter,” Jenks says. “But here, they’re sharing the
beauty of what they can create and what’s in their hearts.”


      *A common vision*

Hospitality House isn’t only organization in the neighborhood that
offers opportunities for homeless people to tap into their creative
selves. Jackson is also a frequent visitor at The Healing Well, an
offshoot of the street ministry called Faithful Fools
<http://www.faithfulfools.org/>. The two organizations share a narrow
and cozy building on Hyde Street on the edge of the Tenderloin, where
they offer free poetry, yoga, meditation, and clowning classes.

“When I first got involved in this work, I thought, you’ve got to be
kidding,” says Kathy Curran, Healing Well’s founder and director.
 “We’re offering classes like yoga and meditation, and art and poetry.
Shouldn’t we be helping these people find housing and get jobs?”

But Curran soon saw the value of Healing Well’s offerings. “I quickly
realized how important it is for people to have a place where they can
develop a sense of calm and confidence in coping with the trials of the
past and the opportunities of the future,” she says.

An art show in the window of the Community Arts Center at Hospitality
House (Photo: Cy Musiker/KQED)

Back at Hospitality House, Jackson puts her paintbrush in a cup of
water. Jackson has found temporary housing for the next three months.
She says should be okay, as long as she can continue to make art.
“Homelessness isn’t who I am,” Jackson says. “It happens to be something
I’m going through right now.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

/Originally published at //ww2.kqed.org/
<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/why-art-making-is-essential-to-the-tenderloins-homeless-population/>/on
June 29, 2016./

Homeless <https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/homeless?source=post>San
Francisco
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/san-francisco?source=post>Art
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/art?source=post>Audio
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/audio?source=post>SFHomelessProject <https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/sfhomelessproject?source=post>
5
#
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Go to the profile of KQED

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@kqed?source=footer_card>


      KQED <https://sfhomelessproject.com/@kqed>

Your Northern California PBS and NPR Stations

#
Follow
SF Homeless Project

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=footer_card>


      SF Homeless Project
      <https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=footer_card>

80 publishers, one focus.

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/i-want-to-open-a-lgbtq-shelter-i-want-to-give-people-like-me-something-to-be-connected-to-lisa-fedfb9ffa00d?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
More on SFHomelessProject from SF Homeless Project
“I want to open a LGBTQ shelter. I want to give people like me something
to be connected to.” Lisa

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/i-want-to-open-a-lgbtq-shelter-i-want-to-give-people-like-me-something-to-be-connected-to-lisa-fedfb9ffa00d?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
Go to the profile of stories behind the fog

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@storiesbehindthefog>
stories behind the fog
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@storiesbehindthefog?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
11
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/in-contra-costa-one-mans-homeless-outreach-mission-comes-to-an-end-4a070428bd19?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-45>
More on Audio from SF Homeless Project
In Contra Costa, One Man’s Homeless Outreach Mission Comes to an End

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/in-contra-costa-one-mans-homeless-outreach-mission-comes-to-an-end-4a070428bd19?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-45>
Go to the profile of KQED

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@kqed>
KQED
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@kqed?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-45>
2
<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/i-worked-on-the-set-of-the-matrix-now-i-live-outdoors-cynthia-7e4a1921b954?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Also tagged SFHomelessProject
“I worked on the set of ‘The Matrix.’ Now, I live outdoors.” Cynthia

<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/i-worked-on-the-set-of-the-matrix-now-i-live-outdoors-cynthia-7e4a1921b954?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Go to the profile of stories behind the fog

<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/@storiesbehindthefog>
stories behind the fog
<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/@storiesbehindthefog?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
10
Responses
Write a response…
Unknown user
No responses yet
Show all responses

×

Don’t miss KQED’s next story
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
KQEDKQED
