<#>

      o Home <http://www.sfexaminer.com/>
      o Breaking News <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/breaking-news/>
      o The City <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/>
          + Bay Area
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/bay-area/>
          + City Planning
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/city-planning/>
          + Crime
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/crime/>
          + Education
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/education/>
          + News Columnists
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/sf-news-columns/>
          + Peninsula
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/peninsula/>
          + Politics
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/politics/>
          + Transit
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/transit/>
      o Election
        <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/election/>
      o Photo Galleries
        <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/photo-galleries/>
      o Sports <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/>
          + MLB
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-stories/mlb/>
          + NBA
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-stories/nba/>
          + NFL
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-stories/nfl/>
          + NHL
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-stories/nhl/>
          + Other
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-stories/other-sports/>
          + Sports Columnists
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-columnists/>
      o Arts <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/>
          + Movies and TV
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/movies-and-tv/>
          + Performing Arts
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/performing-arts/>
          + Visual Arts
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/visual-arts/>
      o Features <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/>
          + Food & Dining
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/food-and-dining/>
          + Gossip <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/gossip/>
          + Health <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/health/>
          + Law <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/law/>
          + Other <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/other/>
      o Nation & World <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/nation-world/>
          + California News
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/nation-world/california-news/>
          + US News
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/nation-world/us-news/>
          + World News
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/nation-world/world-news/>
      o Opinion <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/opinion/>
          + Editorials
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/opinion/editorials/>
          + Letters
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/opinion/letters-to-the-editor/>
          + Op-Ed <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/opinion/op-ed/>
      o Real Estate <http://www.sfexaminer.com/san-francisco-real-estate/>
          + San Francisco
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/real-estate/san-francisco/>
          + Peninsula
            <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/real-estate/peninsula-real-estate/>
      o Contact Us <http://www.sfexaminer.com/contact-us/>
      o Customer Service
        <http://www.sfexaminer.com/circulation-customer-service/>
      o Archives <http://www.sfexaminer.com/archive/>

<javascript:void(0)>
<http://afterdarksf.com/?src=examiner>
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/index.php>

  * Sign up for our e-edition
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/sign-up-for-our-newsletter/>
  * |
  * <https://www.facebook.com/sfexaminer>
  * <https://twitter.com/sfexaminer>

<https://www.sterlingbank.com/personal-online-banking.html>

<http://www.sfexaminer.com/index.php> Wednesday November 16, 2016
 
Breaking News <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/breaking-news/> >
Editor's Picks <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/editors-picks/> >
Featured Breaking
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/featured-breaking/> > The City
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/> > San Francisco News
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/> > SF
Homeless Project
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/sf-homeless-project/>


  Will San Francisco see the writing on the wall?


      Trending Articles

  * Trump called racist, sexist in SF classroom lesson plan
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/trump-called-racist-sexist-s-f-classroom-lesson-plan/>

  * Scott Wiener declares victory in state Senate race
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/scott-wiener-declares-victory-state-senate-race/>

  * Return of dominant Mack leads Raiders into Mexico City
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/return-dominant-mack-leads-raiders-mexico-city/>

  * Open letter to the people of San Francisco
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/open-letter-people-san-francisco/>
  * Forest Hill neighbors oppose 150-unit senior housing proposal
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/forest-hill-neighbors-oppose-150-unit-senior-housing-proposal/>



    San Francisco Yellow Pages

Apartments
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/apartments.zq.html>
Attorneys
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/attorneys.zq.html>
Auto Dealers
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/auto+dealers.zq.html>
Auto Parts
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/auto+parts.zq.html>
Auto Repair
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/auto+repair.zq.html>
Beauty Salons
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/beauty+salons.zq.html>
Car Rental
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/search.pg?q=car%20rental&z=san+francisco>
Dentists <http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/dentists.zq.html>
Doctors <http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/doctors.zq.html>
Flowers <http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/flowers.zq.html>
Hotels <http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/hotels.zq.html>
Insurance
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/insurance.zq.html>
Loans <http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/loans.zq.html>
Mortgages
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/mortgages.zq.html>
Movers
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/search.pg?q=movers&z=san+francisco>
Pizza <http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/pizza.zq.html>
Realtors <http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/realtors.zq.html>
Restaurants
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/restaurants.zq.html>
Storage <http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/storage.zq.html>
Tax Preparation
<http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/search.pg?q=tax%20preparation&z=san+francisco>
Travel <http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco/travel.zq.html>
More... <http://yellowpages.sfexaminer.com/san+francisco.z.html>
Neil Taylor, a homeless San Francisco resident, sits at the corner of
Brannan and Division streets. He returned to find this note from a
friend after Public Works crews swept away his belongings. (Jessica
Christian/S.F. Examiner)
Neil Taylor, a homeless San Francisco resident, sits at the corner of
Brannan and Division streets. He returned to find this note from a
friend after Public Works crews swept away his belongings. (Jessica
Christian/S.F. Examiner)
By Examiner Staff <http://www.sfexaminer.com/author/examiner_staff/> on
June 29, 2016 1:00 am
Facebook
<http://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2F%3Fp%3D147396&t=Will%20San%20Francisco%20see%20the%20writing%20on%20the%20wall%3F&s=100&p[url]=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2F%3Fp%3D147396&p[images][0]=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2Fwp-content%2Fuploads%2F2016%2F06%2FNeilEdited.jpg&p[title]=Will%20San%20Francisco%20see%20the%20writing%20on%20the%20wall%3F>twitter
<http://twitter.com/share?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2F%3Fp%3D147396&text=Will%20San%20Francisco%20see%20the%20writing%20on%20the%20wall%3F>google_plus
<https://plus.google.com/share?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2F%3Fp%3D147396>mail
<mailto:?subject=Will%20San%20Francisco%20see%20the%20writing%20on%20the%20wall%3F&body=Hey%20check%20this%20out:%20http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2F%3Fp%3D147396>Facebook
<http://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2F%3Fp%3D147396&t=Will%20San%20Francisco%20see%20the%20writing%20on%20the%20wall%3F&s=100&p[url]=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2F%3Fp%3D147396&p[images][0]=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2Fwp-content%2Fuploads%2F2016%2F06%2FNeilEdited.jpg&p[title]=Will%20San%20Francisco%20see%20the%20writing%20on%20the%20wall%3F>twitter
<http://twitter.com/share?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2F%3Fp%3D147396&text=Will%20San%20Francisco%20see%20the%20writing%20on%20the%20wall%3F>google_plus
<https://plus.google.com/share?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2F%3Fp%3D147396>mail
<mailto:?subject=Will%20San%20Francisco%20see%20the%20writing%20on%20the%20wall%3F&body=Hey%20check%20this%20out:%20http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfexaminer.com%2F%3Fp%3D147396>

To the city and people of San Francisco:

Like you, we are frustrated, confused and dismayed by the seemingly
intractable problem of homelessness in our city. Like you, we want
answers — and change.

We see the misery around us — the 6,600 or more people who live on the
streets of San Francisco — and we sense it is worsening. We feel for the
people who live in doorways and under freeways, and for the countless
others who teeter on the edge of eviction. We empathize with the EMTs,
the nurses and doctors, the social workers and the police. They are on
the front lines of this ongoing human catastrophe.

Numerous noble, well-intentioned efforts by both public and private
entities have surfaced over the decades, yet the problem persists. It is
a situation that would disgrace the government of any city. But in the
technological and progressive capital of the nation, it is unconscionable.

So beginning today, more than 70 media organizations are taking the
unprecedented step of working together to focus attention on this
crucial issue.

↓ *Continue Reading Below*

[advertisement]
[advertisement]

We will pool our resources — reporting, data analysis, photojournalism,
video, websites — and starting Wednesday, June 29, will publish,
broadcast and share a series of stories across all of our outlets. We
intend to explore possible solutions, their costs and viability.

Though this is a united effort, we do not claim to speak with one voice.
There are many lenses through which the issue of homelessness can be
viewed. However, we do not intend to let a desire for the perfect
solution become the enemy of the good. We want to inspire and incite
each other as much as we want to prod city and civic leaders.

Fundamentally, we are driven by the desire to stop calling what we see
on our streets the new normal. Frustration and resignation are not a
healthy psyche for a city.

Our aim is to provide you with the necessary information and potential
options to put San Francisco on a better path. Then it will be up to all
of us — citizens, activists, public and private agencies, politicians —
to work together to get there.

Signed,
The SF Homeless Project <https://www.facebook.com/sfhomelessproject>


    SAN FRANCISCO EXAMINER’S HOMELESS COVERAGE:

*SF expanding program that has bused 10K homeless residents out of town
in past decade*
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/sf-expanding-program-bused-10k-homeless-residents-town-past-decade/>

Since February 2005, The City has provided nearly 10,000 homeless
residents Greyhound bus tickets — also a $10 per travel day allowance
for food — to cities across the United States under Homeward Bound, the
bus ticket home program, according to data compiled by the San Francisco
Examiner through the Freedom of Information Act.

*Searching for solutions at Project Homeless Connect*
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/searching-solutions-project-homeless-connect/>

People at a recent gathering in the Bayview District bandied about
possible solutions to homelessness, among them a guaranteed income and
stronger tenant protections.

*Amplifying the voices of homeless people*
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/amplifying-voices-homeless-people/>

T.J. Johnston is a freelance journalist who covers homelessness and
other political issues. His work appears in such publications as Street
Sheet, Street Spirit and the San Francisco Public Press.

*Dueling SF ballot measures emerge over homeless tent encampments*
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/dueling-sf-ballot-measures-emerge-homeless-tent-encampments/>

Supervisor Mark Farrell last week placed on the November ballot a
measure that would ban homeless tent encampments and authorize The City
to remove them within 24-hour notice after offering shelter, while
Supervisor Aaron Peskin introduced Tuesday a counter to that measure
that would create a process for the removal of encampments under
existing laws.

*SF opens second Navigation Center for homeless residents*
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/sf-opens-second-navigation-center-homeless-residents/>

San Francisco celebrated the opening of its second Navigation Center on
Tuesday, marking the addition of 93 beds that will serve as temporary
shelters for homeless residents.

*GLIDE Goods provides pricey hygiene products for free*
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/glide-goods-provides-pricey-hygiene-products-free/>

Go to a corner store and try to stock a bathroom with toiletries all at
once. Add camping gear and an emergency kit. It could cost you quite a
bit. Enter the Tenderloin’s GLIDE Memorial Church’s GLIDE Goods program,
a pop-up store that launched in May to distribute these goods, most as
sample sizes, free of charge to homeless and low-income residents.

*What happens when SF takes homeless people’s ‘stuff’*
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/happens-sf-takes-homeless-peoples-stuff/>

It was a sunny day last Friday as I walked under Interstate 280 looking
for Neil. From the old Dolby Laboratories across Division Street, a gold
glint caught my eye. Someone had scrawled on a nearby freeway pylon,
“Neil, the cops came and took everyone’s stuff, sorry.”

*Taking a tour of SF’s storage yard for homeless people’s stuff*
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/taking-tour-sfs-storage-yard-homeless-peoples-stuff/>

At Public Works’ maintenance yard on Cesar Chavez Street, some items
taken from encampments that are identified as “valuables” are held in
the hopes that one day they’ll be claimed.

*Struggles shared by undocumented immigrants, homeless*
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/struggles-shared-undocumented-immigrants-homeless/>

There seems to me to be much similarity between being an undocumented
immigrant and being homeless. It’s about being in crisis mode, being
displaced and being alienated by society. And both situations are driven
by poverty.

*EDITORIAL: Joining with SF Homeless Project*
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/joining-sf-homeless-project/>

The premise of the SF Homeless Project is that, collectively, media
outlets shining a bright multi-angled light on the problem of
homelessness at this moment can compel change. We, as project
participants, felt it was time to say in one chorus — a collection of
multiple voices — that what has been tolerated up to now is no longer
tolerable.

*Interactive map of all bus trips*
<https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/1/viewer?mid=11QX8dW7E-TIQuD5LmwhcAPd6uoQ>



    Click here <#disqus_comments> or scroll down to comment

Our Content Recommended For You
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/wins-for-homeless/>
Wins for homeless <http://www.sfexaminer.com/wins-for-homeless/>
Nov 13, 2016
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/report-creating-tech-shuttle-hubs-reduce-conflicts-muni-buses/>
Report: Creating ‘Tech shuttle’ hubs would reduce conflicts with Muni
buses
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/report-creating-tech-shuttle-hubs-reduce-conflicts-muni-buses/>
Nov 15, 2016
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/scott-wiener-declares-victory-state-senate-race/>
Scott Wiener declares victory in state Senate race
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/scott-wiener-declares-victory-state-senate-race/>
Nov 15, 2016
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/sf-promises-improved-ferry-service-citys-sixth-top-visited-attraction-alcatraz/>
SF promises improved ferry service to city’s sixth top visited
attraction — Alcatraz
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/sf-promises-improved-ferry-service-citys-sixth-top-visited-attraction-alcatraz/>
Nov 16, 2016
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/trump-president-woman-object/>
Trump as president; woman as object
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/trump-president-woman-object/>
Nov 10, 2016
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/warriors-arena-plan-back-court-effort-build-mission-bay/>
Warriors arena plan back in court over effort to build in Mission Bay
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/warriors-arena-plan-back-court-effort-build-mission-bay/>
Nov 15, 2016


    In Other News


      Trending Articles

  * Trump called racist, sexist in SF classroom lesson plan
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/trump-called-racist-sexist-s-f-classroom-lesson-plan/>

  * Scott Wiener declares victory in state Senate race
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/scott-wiener-declares-victory-state-senate-race/>

  * Return of dominant Mack leads Raiders into Mexico City
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/return-dominant-mack-leads-raiders-mexico-city/>

  * Open letter to the people of San Francisco
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/open-letter-people-san-francisco/>
  * Forest Hill neighbors oppose 150-unit senior housing proposal
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/forest-hill-neighbors-oppose-150-unit-senior-housing-proposal/>


  * Breaking News <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/breaking-news/>

  * The City <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/>
  * Crime
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/crime/>
  * Politics
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/politics/>
  * Education
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/education/>
  * City Planning
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/city-planning/>
  * Transit
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/san-francisco-news/transit/>
  * Columnists
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/the-city/sf-news-columns/>

  * Sports <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/>
  * NFL <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-stories/nfl/>
  * NBA <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-stories/nba/>
  * MLB <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-stories/mlb/>
  * NHL <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-stories/nhl/>
  * Columnists
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-columnists/>
  * Other
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sports/sports-stories/other-sports/>

  * Photo Galleries <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/photo-galleries/>

  * Opinion <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/opinion/>
  * Letters
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/opinion/letters-to-the-editor/>
  * Op-eds <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/opinion/op-ed/>
  * Editorials <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/opinion/editorials/>

  * Features <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/>
  * Food <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/food-and-dining/>
  * Health <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/health/>
  * Law <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/law/>
  * Other <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/features/other/>

  * Arts <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/>
  * Calendar <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/calendar/>
  * Comedy <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/comedy/>
  * Community <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/community/>
  * Dance <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/Dance/>
  * Literature <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/Literature/>
  * Movies and TV <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/movies-and-tv/>
  * Music <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/music/>
  * Performing Arts
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/performing-arts/>
  * Theater <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/Theater/>
  * Visual Arts <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/arts/visual-arts/>

  * Nation and World <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/nation-world/>
  * California News
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/nation-world/california-news/>
  * US News <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/nation-world/us-news/>
  * World News <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/nation-world/world-news/>

  * Sponsored <http://www.sfexaminer.com/category/sponsored/>
  * Readers’ Choice 2016
    <http://www.sfexaminer.com/events/2016/ReadersChoice/>

  * Connect
  * Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/sfexaminer>
  * Twitter <https://twitter.com/sfexaminer>

  * Contact
  * Contact us <http://www.sfexaminer.com/contact-us/>
  * Employment <http://www.sfexaminer.com/sf-examiner-jobs/>
  * Subscription <http://www.sfexaminer.com/circulation-customer-service/>
  * E-Edition Signup <http://www.sfexaminer.com/sign-up-for-our-newsletter/>

  * Real Estate <http://www.sfexaminer.com/san-francisco-real-estate/>

©2016 The San Francisco Examiner
Terms of Use <http://www.sfexaminer.com/terms-of-use/> | Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfexaminer.com/privacy-policy/>

