  * <http://www.sfgate.com/>
  * Autos <http://www.sfgate.com/cars/>
  * Jobs <http://www.sfgate.com/jobs/>
  * Real Estate <http://www.sfgate.com/realestate/>
  *

    <http://weather.sfgate.com/US/CA/San_Francisco.html>
    <http://weather.sfgate.com/US/CA/San_Francisco.html>

  * e-edition <http://www.sfchronicle.com/e-edition/>
  * Subscribe <http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe>
  *
    Sign In


     


              Sign in using


                or

    Email Address or Password is incorrect.

    Email address field is required.

    Password field is required.
    Show password
    Forgot password? <javascript:void(0)>
    Keep me signed in


    Don't have a profile?


                Don't have a subscription?

    Sign up <javascript:void(0)> Subscribe

    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>

    By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>


  Arts & Entertainment <http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/>

  *
    Home <http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
  *
    SFGATE <http://www.sfgate.com/>
  *
    Local <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/>
      o
        Pot legalization
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/pot-legalization/>
      o
        Columnists
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/columnists/>
      o
        San Francisco
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/sanfrancisco/>
      o
        Bay Area
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/bayarea/>
      o
        Crime
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/crime/>
      o
        Environment
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/environment/>
      o
        Election 2016
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/election/2016/>
      o
        Health
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/lifestyle/health/>
      o
        Obituaries
        <http://www.legacy.com/obituaries/sfgate/>
      o
        California Drought
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/drought/>
  *
    US & World <http://www.sfchronicle.com/us-world/>
      o
        US
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/us-world/us/>
      o
        World
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/us-world/world/>
      o
        Politics & Policy
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/us-world/politics-policy/>
      o
        Environment
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/us-world/environment/>
      o
        Science
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/us-world/science/>
  *
    Sports <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/>
      o
        49ers
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/49ers/>
      o
        Raiders
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/raiders/>
      o
        Giants
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/giants/>
      o
        A's
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/athletics/>
      o
        Warriors
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/warriors/>
      o
        Cal
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/cal_sports/>
      o
        College
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/college/>
      o
        Stanford
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/stanford_sports/>
      o
        Sharks
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/sharks/>
      o
        High School
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/high-school/>
      o
        More Sports
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sports/other/>
  *
    Biz & Tech <http://www.sfchronicle.com/business/>
      o
        VisionSF
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/visionsf>
      o
        Technology
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/business/technology/>
      o
        Real Estate
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/business/realestate/>
      o
        Driving the future
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/drivingthefuture/>
      o
        Markets
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/business/markets/>
  *
    Opinion <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/>
      o
        Editorials
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/editorials/>
      o
        Letters to the editor
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/letters-editor/>
      o
        Op-ed columns
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/op-ed-columns/>
      o
        Insight
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/insight/>
      o
        Open Forum
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/openforum/>
      o
        Submit your opinions
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/opinion/article/submit-your-opinion-7244189.php?t=3678db0449>

  *
    Style <http://www.sfchronicle.com/style/>
      o
        Scene
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/style/scene/>
      o
        Fashion
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/style/fashion/>
      o
        Shopping
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/style/shopping/>
      o
        Weddings
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/style/weddings/>
      o
        Top Shops 2016
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/top-shops-2016/>
  *
    Food+Home <http://www.sfchronicle.com/foodandhome/>
      o
        Restaurants
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/foodandhome/restaurants/>
      o
        Wine & Beer
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/foodandhome/wine/>
      o
        Recipes
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/foodandhome/recipes/>
      o
        Cook Your Week
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/cookyourweek/>
      o
        Top 100 Restaurants
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/top100restaurants>
      o
        Home Design
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/foodandhome/home-design/>
      o
        Habitat
        <http://digital.olivesoftware.com/Olive/ODN/Habitat/default.aspx>
  *
    A&E <http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/>
      o
        Movies & TV
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/movies-tv/>
      o
        Arts & Theater
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/arts-theater/>
      o
        Music
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/music/>
      o
        Music Festivals Guide
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/music-festivals/>
      o
        Books
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/books/>
      o
        Bad Reporter
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/badreporter/>
      o
        Horoscopes
        <http://www.sfgate.com/horoscope/>
      o
        Comics
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/comics/>
      o
        Games
        <http://www.sfgate.com/games>
      o
        Movie Listings
        <http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/movies/listings/search>
      o
        SFMOMA
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/sfmoma/>
      o
        Leah Garchik
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/author/leah-garchik/>
      o
        Best of Jon Carroll
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/bestofjoncarroll/>
      o
        The Literary City
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/theliterarycity/>
  *
    Lifestyle <http://www.sfchronicle.com/lifestyle/>
      o
        Style
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/style>
      o
        Health
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/lifestyle/health/>
      o
        Outdoors
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/lifestyle/outdoors/>
      o
        Travel
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/lifestyle/travel/>
      o
        Tops Shops 2016
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/top-shops-2016/>
  *
    Photos <http://www.sfchronicle.com/thetake/>
      o
        From the Archive
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/thetakefromthearchive/>
      o
        Photos of the Week
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/thetakepotw/>
      o
        City Exposed
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/takecityexposed/>
      o
        Field of Vision
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/fieldofvision/>
      o
        The Regulars
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/theregulars/>
  *
    Travel <http://www.sfchronicle.com/lifestyle/travel/>
  *
    In-Depth <http://www.sfchronicle.com/special-reports/>
      o
        Beyond Homelessness
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/>
      o
        Top 100 Restaurants
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/top100restaurants>
      o
        AIDS Survivors
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/living-with-aids/>
      o
        Chronicle Covers
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/covers/>
      o
        The Najee Chronicles
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/najee-harris/>
      o
        Seafood's new normal
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/california-seafood-collapse/>
      o
        Rising sea levels
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/sea-level-rise/>
      o
        Bar Stars 2016
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/food/article/Bar-Stars-2016-A-drink-for-everyone-9984049.php>

      o
        Lucas Museum art
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/lucas-art/>
      o
        Captive Lives
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/captive-lives/>
      o
        Airbnb Project 2016
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/airbnb/>
      o
        NorCal Brewery Map
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/brewerymap/>
      o
        Our SF: Archive
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/oursf/>
  *
    Membership <http://www.sfchronicle.com/membership/>
      o
        About Membership
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/membership/faq/>
      o
        Exclusive offers
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/membership/#offers>
      o
        Join Now
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/?ipid=membership>
      o
        Manage my account
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/account>
      o
        Archive
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/archive/>
  *
    Store <https://sfchronicle.myshopify.com/>


    Windows closed, doors locked against the homeless

By Leah Garchik <http://www.sfchronicle.com/author/leah-garchik/>

June 28, 2016 Updated: June 28, 2016 2:30pm

  *

    <javascript:hst_print();>
  *

    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/garchik/article/Windows-closed-doors-locked-against-the-homeless-8328237.php#comments>

    21

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Line of tents on a San Francisco street.

  *

    <javascript:hst_print();>
  *

    <#comments>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Line of tents on a San Francisco street.
Line of tents on a San Francisco street.

One evening a few weeks ago, driving south on Sixth on my way to a chic
cocktail party I was covering, I was stopped in a line of traffic
waiting for a light at Harrison Street. The car windows were rolled up,
the doors locked.

A few moments before, I’d driven down the alley behind The Chronicle and
had to slam on the brakes when a jaywalker disregarded the red light
facing her and crossed in front of me, maybe a foot away from my bumper.
I’m careful. I’ve worked in this neighborhood for a long time, and I
don’t want any trouble and I don’t want to hit anyone.

When I walk on Sixth Street, I make tentative attempts to trade glances
with those whose paths I cross, especially kids or women. Eye contact, a
sign of connection, makes me feel that there’s an unspoken agreement:
Wherever the person sleeps, we’re sharing this street with civility.

That evening, as I waited for the signal to change, I glanced to my
right and saw a woman, head bowed, sitting on the sidewalk, leaning
against a fence. She looked to be in her 40s. Her light brown hair was
tousled. Her hands were cupped around her head, fingers resting on her
forehead.

As I looked at her, she turned her glance outward and upward, and
focused on me. She took her hands away from her face, and I could see
that she had two black eyes, smudged blue-purple circles that started
above her eye sockets and spread halfway down her cheeks. The bruises
were yellowing around the edges, probably incurred a week or so before,
so by this time, although her face was terribly discolored, it wasn’t
swollen and she wasn’t bleeding.

She just sat there by herself, not panhandling, not asking me or anyone
else for anything, obviously recovering from a beating, a fight or a
fall. My impulse was to connect in some way. I nodded slightly. But
sitting there, safely locked into my car, it seemed it would be
condescending or hypocritical to greet her with even a grim-lipped
smile, a middle-class expression of concern. I was in the car, a
spectator; she was on the sidewalk, being seen. A gesture would
underline the difference between our positions.

I could feel her eyes settling on my face, and the few seconds that
passed felt like hours. If there was an appropriate sign of kindness
possible, I couldn’t think of it. She was at least 10 feet away, and she
made no move to stand up or come closer. Besides, the windows were
closed, the doors were locked.

In the line of traffic, it was impossible for me to park. That statement
is true but misleading. because I knew I wouldn’t have parked. And I
couldn’t find a means to convey what I felt for this sister in distress.
I didn’t want her to think I was staring. I didn’t want her to think I
was looking away.

The light changed, and the cars ahead of me started moving, and I felt
my eyes fill with tears. Cheap, I knew instantly, as though I were
analyzing a performance by a soap opera star.

But I wondered whether from where she was sitting, she could see that
watery glitter that I hoped would stand in for compassion, so that she’d
know I cared.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

For the section of this column labeled “Public Eavesdropping,” readers
often send sightings and quotes from people they say are “homeless.” But
unless it’s midnight and the person is asleep in a doorway, it’s
impossible to tell where they sleep. So I usually change “homeless” to
something like “man of the streets” or “woman of the streets.” This has
caused trouble, too, readers thinking it too jaunty, that I’m joking
about that person’s plight.

And even if we ascertain that tents are their “homes” and blankets their
furniture, I’m put off by the two-word phrase “the homeless,” which The
Chronicle has aimed to avoid in its current series of stories. The
“the,” which turns what should be a modifier into a noun, wraps human
neediness into a neat (and ignorable) package.

The people who sleep in the streets, who lie on the sidewalks and lean
against fences, are homeless San Franciscans.

/

Open for business in San Francisco, (415) 777-8426. Email:
lgarchik@sfchronicle.com <mailto:lgarchik@sfchronicle.com> Twitter:
@leahgarchik <http://twitter.com/leahgarchik>

/

Public Eavesdropping

“What a grand city to be homeless in.”

Female tourist to tourist, overheard at the Ferry Building by Mary
Alison Lucas

Leah Garchik


    Leah Garchik <http://www.sfchronicle.com/author/leah-garchik/>

Features Columnist

You must be signed in to comment

is currently signed inSign In

<javascript:void(0)> <javascript:void(0)>


 


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Show password
Forgot password? <javascript:void(0)>
Keep me signed in


Don't have a profile?


            Don't have a subscription?

Sign up <javascript:void(0)> Subscribe

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


        Biz & Tech <http://www.sfchronicle.com/business/>

Ian Mackinlay registers his short term rental with the city at 1660
Mission St. in San Francisco, Calif. on Thursday, Oct. 13, 2016. Getting
Airbnb users to register with the city is required but it is often
difficult to get users to comply
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/business/article/Airbnb-under-the-gun-is-ready-to-cooperate-with-10612040.php>



    Airbnb, under the gun, is ready to cooperate with SF
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/business/article/Airbnb-under-the-gun-is-ready-to-cooperate-with-10612040.php>


        Food <http://www.sfchronicle.com/food/>

Glenview Elementary first graders Miracle Tarrant, (left) and Mi' Yani
Moore participate in the tabbouleh salad taste test given by the Oakland
Unified School District in support of the Good Food Purchasing Program
in Oakland, California as seen on Wednesday November 2, 2016. The two
said they liked the salad.
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/food/article/Fresh-approach-with-farm-to-school-meals-in-10612057.php>



    Fresh approach with farm-to-school meals in Oakland
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/food/article/Fresh-approach-with-farm-to-school-meals-in-10612057.php>


        Politics & policy
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/local/politics-policy/>

Donald Trump speaks during a campaign event at J.S. Dorton Arena in
Raleigh, N.C., on Nov. 7, before he won the presidential election. MUST
CREDIT: Washington Post photo by Jabin Botsford
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/politics/article/Tips-for-improving-political-future-after-10611078.php>



    Tips for improving political future after crushing defeat
    <http://www.sfchronicle.com/politics/article/Tips-for-improving-political-future-after-10611078.php>


        Top 100 Restaurants
        <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/top-100-restaurants/>

<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/top-100-restaurants/>


    Top 100 Restaurants 2016: Savor Bay Area's best
    <http://projects.sfchronicle.com/2016/top-100-restaurants/>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/article/Music-that-nourishes-the-post-election-soul-10613792.php>



      Music that nourishes the post-election soul
      <http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/article/Music-that-nourishes-the-post-election-soul-10613792.php>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/article/Don-t-be-in-a-hurry-to-pull-my-plug-10613947.php>



      Don't be in a hurry to pull my plug
      <http://www.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/article/Don-t-be-in-a-hurry-to-pull-my-plug-10613947.php>

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/performance/article/SoMa-explores-leather-culture-on-the-hoof-10613146.php>



      'SoMa' explores leather culture on the hoof
      <http://www.sfchronicle.com/performance/article/SoMa-explores-leather-culture-on-the-hoof-10613146.php>


        Arts & Entertainment

Load more in Section
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/>
Top <#container>

  *


          About

      o Our Company
        <http://www.hearst.com/newspapers/san-francisco-chronicle.php>
      o Ad Choices <http://www.aboutads.info/choices/>
      o Careers <http://www.sfchronicle.com/hr/>
      o Terms of Use <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/>
      o Advertising <http://marketing.sfgate.com/>
      o Privacy Policy <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy>
      o Your Privacy Rights
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy#your_rights>
      o Your California Privacy Rights
        <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/#caprivacyrights>

  *


          Contact

      o Customer Service <http://www.sfchronicle.com/customer_service>
      o Frequently Asked Questions <http://www.sfchronicle.com/faq>
      o Newsroom Contacts <http://www.sfchronicle.com/newsroom_contacts>

  *


          Connect

      o Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/sanfranciscochronicle>
      o Twitter <https://twitter.com/sfchronicle>
      o LinkedIn <https://www.linkedin.com/company/san-francisco-chronicle>
      o Google+ <https://plus.google.com/+sfgate/posts>
  *


          Connect

      o <https://www.facebook.com/sanfranciscochronicle>
      o <https://twitter.com/sfchronicle>
      o <https://www.linkedin.com/company/san-francisco-chronicle>
      o <https://plus.google.com/+sfgate/posts>

© 2016 Hearst Corporation


    The sign in service is not functioning right now.


    Please try again in a few minutes

If the issues continue, please contact our customer service at

Phone:

Email:


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Show password
Forgot password? <javascript:void(0)>
Keep me signed in


Don't have a profile?


            Don't have a subscription?

Sign up <javascript:void(0)> Subscribe

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a profile using


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password
Send me email offers

Already have a profile? Sign In <javascript:void(0)>

By clicking "Next" or signing in you confirm that you accept our Terms
and Conditions <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and have read
and understood our Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel <javascript:void(0)>


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

<javascript:void(0)>


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in

<javascript:void(0)>


          Hi,


          You are signed in

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>

Maintain your delivery address, payment details and place a vacation
hold in Subscriber Portal.

MANAGE SUBSCRIPTION

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/account/>

Maintain your display name, email address, password and newsletters in
Profile.

MANAGE PROFILE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/profile/>
SUBSCRIBE

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/>
SIGN OUT

<javascript:void(0)>


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our
Terms of Service <http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy
Policy <http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign In

Keep me signed in
Show password Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Show password
Forgot password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Keep me signed in

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>


          Paid Subscription Access Only

You are now signed in but you must have a San Francisco Chronicle
subscription to access any content.

Already have a subscription?

ACTIVATE

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfchronicle.com%2Fentertainment%2Fgarchik%2Farticle%2FWindows-closed-doors-locked-against-the-homeless-8328237.php>


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          About Me

DISPLAY NAMEDisplay names must begin with an alpha-numeric character.
They can not contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor
may they contain obscenities.

This display name is already in use. Please enter a different display name.

You must enter a display name.

Display names must begin with an alpha-numeric character. They can not
contain the following: ! # $ % ^ & * ( ) | \ / ? {} [ ] nor may they
contain obscenities.

EMAIL ADDRESSChanging this email address will also change the email
address associated with your subscription

You must enter an email address.

GENDERThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

BIRTH YEARThis optional field is required to enter contests and promotions

* are required fields


          SF Chronicle Subscription

You can manage your delivery address, payment details, delete your
account and more subscription details in the subscriber portal.

Manage Subscription

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/account/>


            Get it on all your devices


    Unlimited digital access with every subscription

SFChronicle.com | App for iPhone and iPad
e-edition (daily print replica) | Exclusive member experiences and discounts

SUBSCRIBE NOW AND SAVE!

<http://www.sfchronicle.com/subscribe/> I have a subscription

<https://syncaccess-hst-sfc.syncronex.com/portal/#/activation?return=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sfchronicle.com%2Fentertainment%2Fgarchik%2Farticle%2FWindows-closed-doors-locked-against-the-homeless-8328237.php>


          Password

EDIT

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.


          Password

CANCEL

This password applies to SFGate and San Francisco Chronicle including
the San Francisco Chronicle subscription and account management page.

CURRENT PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Current password is incorrect

Current password field is required

NEW PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain both
upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

New password field is required

CONFIRM PASSWORD Passwords must be at least 8 characters and contain
both upper and lowercase letters and at least one number.

Confirm password field is required

Show password


    Welcome, !

Your profile, subscription, linked accounts, and newsletter selections
are not viewable by other readers on our sites. Your profile can only be
seen by you. Any comments you post to articles on our sites can be seen
by all readers and moderators.


          Newsletter Preferences

You are subscribed to the following:

  * Top O’ the Bay

    The latest stories from across the San Francisco Bay Area

  * Notes & Errata

    Mark Morford's irreverent and highly satiric weekly column

  * Breaking News

    Be notified when when big stories break or critical warnings are
    issued for the Bay Area

  * Sports

    Coverage of all your Bay Area teams

  * Inside Scoop

    Insider knowledge for Bay Area foodies

  * New Flicks

    The latest movie reviews

  * Business & Technology

    The latest in business, finance, and tech news

  * 5 Things To Do

    Great events across the Bay Area selected just for you


          San Francisco Chronicle Newsletters

  * Chronicle Commuter

    A curated selection of stories just in time for your afternoon commute

  * Membership Updates

    The latest from our membership benefits program (subscribers only)

  * e-edition Reminder

    Reminder of your daily e-edition, a replica of the print newspaper
    (subscribers only)

  * Subscription Reminders

    Notices and reminders about your subscription (subscribers only)


          Email Notifications and Offers

  * Feature Updates

    Special features, new site sections and more from The Chronicle and
    SFGATE

  * Promotions & Sales

    Subscription offers from the San Francisco Chronicle and other
    special promotions

  * Surveys

    Surveys about your Chronicle print edition, websites and other
    digital products

  * Advertiser Special Offers

    Receive special offers sent by us on behalf of select advertisers
    and partners

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in Forgot Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.
Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

You must be a subscriber to access this content.

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

Stay signed in
Forgot Your Password?


          Sign In

If you are a subscriber, Sign in!

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Stay signed in
Forgot Password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel

Back to Sign In

Email address field is required.

Email address is incorrect.

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

You must be a subscriber to access this content.


          Link Profiles

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot Your Password?

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Forgot Your Password?


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.

Link Profiles

Stay signed in

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

You must link your profile in order to continue. Please provide your
password or select a social network to connect your existing profile
with your social network.

Forgot Your Password?


          SIGN IN


          This is the first time you have logged in with a social network.


          You have previously logged in with a different social network.

Connect with an existing social network account:

To connect with your existing account, click below:

Please provide your password to connect your existing profile:

Show password
Forgot Your Password?
Keep me signed in


          Accounts Linked

You have linked your accounts, tap below to log in:


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In

Sign In With Your Existing San Francisco Chronicle Account
Sign In
OR

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Show password
Keep me signed in
Forgot Your Password?

By signing in, you agree to our terms of use
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/>.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password?

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Sign in using


            or

Email Address or Password is incorrect.

Email address field is required.

Password field is required.
Show password
Forgot password?
Keep me signed in
Keep me signed in
Show password
Forgot password?

Create an account

By signing in, you agree to our Terms of Service
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/terms_of_use/> and Privacy Policy
<http://www.sfchronicle.com/privacy_policy/>.


          Create a sign-in for your subscription account


            or

Passwords must be at least 8 characters, contain upper and lowercase
letters and at least one number.

Show password

Have a profile on SFGate or San Francisco Chronicle already?

Sign In

Contact Customer Service at 800-310-2455 or email us at
homedelivery@sfchronicle.com <mailto:homedelivery@sfchronicle.com>.


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Reset your password?

Provide your email address to receive a password reset link.

Cancel


          Reset your password

An email regarding your password change has been sent to your email address.

Return to Sign In


          Complete Sign Up!

*You're almost there!*

Please verify your email in order to complete your profile. Check your
email for a profile verification link.

You will not have access to writing comments, managing newsletters or
alerts, and updating your profile until you verify your account with the
link provided.

The verification link in the email will expire in 24 hours.

To resend the verification email, please enter your email address below.
The email address submitted will be sent a profile verification link.


          Complete Sign Up!

A verification email with a link to verify your account has been sent to
you.

Return to sign in

