//

<#>
//

<#>

  * News <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/view-all-blog-articles>
  * Identities <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/identities>
  * Entertainment <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/entertainment>
  * Music <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/music>
  * Lifestyle <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/lifestyle>

logo <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/>
WYV Exclusive
Sign-up to our mailing list!

  *

    <https://www.facebook.com/wyvmag/>
  *

    <https://twitter.com/wearyourvoice>
  *

    <https://www.instagram.com/wearyourvoicemag/>
  *

    <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCWUELcfXOqUhhlpRW5l5TcA>

//
*Prove your humanity: * 6   +   3   =  
Lost your password?
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/wp-login.php?action=lostpassword&wpe-login=ravneetvohra>


//
//

  * News

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/view-all-blog-articles>
  * Identities

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/identities>
  * Entertainment

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/entertainment>
  * Music

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/music>
  * Lifestyle

    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/lifestyle>
  * // Trending

    <#>


        // Trending

    Now

    <#>Week

    <#>Month

    <#>

        Not enough data yet, please check again later.

  * //

    <#>


  WYV Joins Week of Homeless Coverage

Beth@wyvmag.com'Beth Winegarner
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/beth-winegarner>//Jun 27, 2016//Social
Justice <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/social-justice>
Home <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/>//More
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more>//Social Justice
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/category/more/social-justice>
Homeless person in front of San Francisco City Hall.

A homeless person sleeps in front of San Francisco City Hall. Photo
courtesy San Francisco Chronicle.


  SF Homeless Project Aims to Change how Homelessness is Viewed —
  and Resolved

This week, Wear Your Voice is joining 70 other media organizations
around the San Francisco Bay Area to dedicate coverage to the region’s
homelessness problem. Our coverage will include essays from women who
are currently or formerly homeless.

This massive project is being spearheaded by the /San Francisco
Chronicle /in an effort to put pressure on leaders and other officials
to fix institutional problems that have left so many vulnerable people
on the streets, living in cars or couch-surfing.

The /Chronicle’s/ Kevin Fagan, who has spent a great deal of time among
San Francisco’s homeless, wrote in the newspaper yesterday
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/overview/> that although
the city’s official homeless population count is roughly 6,700, many
believe the number of unhoused people in the City by the Bay is much
larger. “Whatever the case, homelessness in San Francisco doesn’t look
much different than it did 10 years ago. Or 20,” he writes.

*Related: Dear San Francisco Bay Area: Our Homelessness Problem Is
Unconscionable. Let’s Fix It.
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/homelessness-problem-lets-fix>*

Mayor after mayor has tried to throw money and solutions at the problem.
These efforts have indeed resulted in more people being housed, but
depressingly large numbers of people remain homeless.

“There’s a mythology that you can, quote unquote, end homelessness at
any moment,” former mayor Gavin Newsom said in 2014. “But there are new
people coming in, suffering through the cycles of their lives. It’s the
manifestation of complete, abject failure as a society. We’ll never
solve this at City Hall.”

Fagan writes:

The situation could be dramatically improved through new private-public
funding models, cheaper forms of modular housing, and streamlining
techniques for helping people move out of supportive housing after
they’ve been stabilized.

If the city’s shelters were expanded by hundreds of beds, and fashioned
more along the lines of the 15-month-old Navigation Center, they could
finally become the routing tools into housing that Agnos envisioned a
quarter-century ago. The center at Mission and 16th streets takes in
street campers with their partners, pets and gear and surrounds them
with case managers to help them get their lives together quickly. The
city is already moving toward change: A second center is scheduled to
open at Market and 12th streets this week, and the Board of Supervisors
has voted to open five more Navigation Centers over the next two years.

Time will tell whether it will be enough.

|

|


      Comments

Share This Post:
/

/
Previous Article
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/entertainment/astrology-feminists-627>Astrology
for Feminists, Week of June 26-July 3
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/entertainment/astrology-feminists-627>
/

/
Next Article
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/sex/tips/a-disabled-beans-guide-to-domming>A Disabled
Bean's Guide to Domming
<http://wearyourvoicemag.com/sex/tips/a-disabled-beans-guide-to-domming>
Beth@wyvmag.com' <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/beth-winegarner>
Beth Winegarner <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/beth-winegarner>
Senior Editor
// <mailto:Beth@wyvmag.com> // <http://www.twitter.com/@beth_winegarner>


Related Posts

  *
    Close-up of a Black woman's face, showing depression.
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/ableism/black-depression-struggle>


            When You’re Black and Depressed, It’s Even More Difficult to
            Get Help
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/ableism/black-depression-struggle>

    Mickey Valentine
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/mickey-valentine>//Jun 24, 2016
  *
    Woman-Sad-Smiling-bipolar-disorder-wear-your-voice-article
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/ableism/4-ways-you-can-help-a-partner-with-borderline-personality-disorder>


            4 Ways You Can Help a Partner With Borderline Personality
            Disorder
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/ableism/4-ways-you-can-help-a-partner-with-borderline-personality-disorder>

    Mickey Valentine
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/mickey-valentine>//Jan 5, 2016
  *
    Homeless people sleeping at St. Boniface church in San Francisco.
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/cant-fix-homelessness>


            Why Can’t We Seem to Fix Homelessness?
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/more/social-justice/cant-fix-homelessness>

    Beth Winegarner
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/beth-winegarner>//Jun 29, 2016
  *
    When you're living with anxiety, the irritation of commuters rushing
    to get to work can bring your whole day down. Photo by Elliott
    Scott. Creative Commons license.
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/ableism/importance-kind-positive-living-anxiety>


            Living With Anxiety: How Kindness Can Help
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/ableism/importance-kind-positive-living-anxiety>

    Guest Blogger <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/guest-blogger>//Feb
    23, 2016
  *
    Anorexia recovery photo shoot.
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/body-politics/hospitalized-anorexia-photo-shoot>


            After I Was Hospitalized With Anorexia, a Brave Photo Shoot
            Helped My Recovery
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/body-politics/hospitalized-anorexia-photo-shoot>

    Guest Blogger <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/guest-blogger>//Sep
    7, 2016
  *
    depressed-woman-mental-illness-wear-your-voice-article
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/ableism/like-checking-psych-ward>


            What It Was Like Checking Myself Into a Psych Ward
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/ableism/like-checking-psych-ward>

    Laurel Dickman
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/laurel-dickman>//Jan 19, 2016
  *
    Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg.
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/ableism/3-ways-facebook-accessible>


            3 Ways We Can Make Facebook More Accessible
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/ableism/3-ways-facebook-accessible>

    Nik Moreno <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/nik-moreno>//Oct 12, 2016
  *
    21-ways-ableist-privilege-looks-wear-your-voice.jpg
    <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/ableism/21-ways-able-bodied-privilege-looks>


            21 Ways Able-Bodied Privilege Looks
            <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/identities/ableism/21-ways-able-bodied-privilege-looks>

    Nik Moreno <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team/nik-moreno>//Mar 31, 2016

  * //

    <#>
  * //

    <#>

logo <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/>

  * Media Kit <http://media.wearyourvoicemag.com/>
  * Our Team <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/team-page>
  * Terms of Use <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/terms-of-use>

  * About Us <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/our-story>
  * Writer Submissions <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/writer>
  * CONTACT <http://wearyourvoicemag.com/contact>

  * Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/wyvmag/>
  * Instagram <https://www.instagram.com/wearyourvoicemag/>
  * Twitter
    <https://twitter.com/WearYourVoice?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor>
  * Youtube <https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCWUELcfXOqUhhlpRW5l5TcA>

:)
