Youth Radio

<https://youthradio.org/> Toggle navigation

  * About

    <#>
      o Classes

        <https://youthradio.org/classes/>
      o Staff

        <https://youthradio.org/staff/>
      o Awards

        <https://youthradio.org/awards/>
      o Press

        <https://youthradio.org/press/>
      o Jobs

        <https://youthradio.org/jobs/>
      o Outlets & Partners

        <https://youthradio.org/outlets-and-partners/>
      o Contact Us

        <https://youthradio.org/contact/>
  * Mission

    <https://youthradio.org/mission/>
  * Youth Storytelling

    <#>
      o Journalism

        <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/>
      o Arts

        <https://youthradio.org/category/arts/>
      o Interactive

        <https://youthradio.org/category/apps/>
      o YR Raw

        <https://youthradio.org/category/yr-raw/>
  * For Educators

    <https://youthradio.org/for-teachers/>
  * Subscribe

    <#>
      o iTunes Link

      o Podcast Link

        <http://feeds.feedburner.com/youthradiopodcast>
      o Site Feed

        <http://feeds.feedburner.com/YouthRadio>
      o Newsletter

        <https://youthradio.org/newsletter/>

*Listen Now* // Podcast // //

Donate

<https://youthradio.org/donate/>


  Young Adults Seeking Public Housing? Good Luck.

March 21, 2016 by Kasey Saeturn
<https://youthradio.org/staff/kasey-saeturn/>

Featured on Morning Edition
<https://youthradio.org/outlets/morning-edition/>

Photo by: Shawn Wen/Youth Radio

Listen Now //
/

/

Download

<https://s3.amazonaws.com/media.youthradio.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/17105819/Housing_YR_MIX.mp3>


Share this story:

  *
    /

    /

    <http://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fyouthradio.org%2Fjournalism%2Feducation%2Fyoung-adults-seeking-public-housing-good-luck%2F&t=Young%20Adults%20Seeking%20Public%20Housing%3F%20Good%20Luck.>

  *
    /

    /

    <http://twitter.com/share?text=Young%20Adults%20Seeking%20Public%20Housing%3F%20Good%20Luck.&url=https%3A%2F%2Fyouthradio.org%2Fjournalism%2Feducation%2Fyoung-adults-seeking-public-housing-good-luck%2F&via=youthradio>


In San Francisco, one-bedroom apartments rents average $3490 a month.
There are about 1600 homeless young adults in the city on any given
night, and public housing is out of reach for many of them. (Photo
credit: Shawn Wen/Youth Radio)
<https://youthradio.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/IMG_1351_blurred.jpg>
In San Francisco, one-bedroom apartments rents average $3490 a month.
There are about 1600 homeless young adults in the city on any given
night, and public housing is out of reach for many of them. (Photo
credit: Shawn Wen/Youth Radio)

It’s normal for millennials to still live at home these days. But what
if you’re a millennial who doesn’t have a home to go back to?

“I didn’t mind sleeping on the floor. I didn’t mind sleeping on the
couch,” said 23-year-old Alkeisha Porter.

Growing up, she says she didn’t like her mom’s husband and her dad had a
drug problem. So at 16, she moved out and became homeless.

“I was basically just house-hopping from friends to family members. Hey,
it was comfortable to me. It wasn’t cold. I wasn’t sleeping outside,”
she said.

Young people – including eighteen to 24-year-olds — make up one of the
fastest growing homeless populations in the country
<http://homeless.samhsa.gov/Channel/Youth-31.aspx>. In many big cities
like New York, Los Angeles, and San Francisco where housing is at a
premium, finding affordable housing is especially hard.

In San Francisco, one-bedroom apartments rents average $3490 (more than
3400)
<http://www.sfgate.com/bayarea/article/San-Francisco-rent-cost-drop-rental-6690357.php?cmpid=email-tablet>
a month. There are about 1600 homeless young adults in the city on any
given night, and public housing is out of reach for many of them.

Porter found an apartment for herself and her baby in a building located
on Ocean Avenue in San Francisco, run by a non-profit called Mercy. It
provides subsidized affordable housing for low-income residents,
including 25 apartments reserved for 18 to 24-year-olds.

 

Mercy, a San Francisco-based nonprofit, provides subsidized affordable
housing for low income residents, including 25 apartments reserved for
18 to 24-year-olds.(Photo credit: Shawn Wen/Youth Radio)
<https://youthradio.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/IMG_12991.jpg>
Mercy, a San Francisco-based nonprofit, provides subsidized affordable
housing for low income residents, including 25 apartments reserved for
18 to 24-year-olds.(Photo credit: Shawn Wen/Youth Radio)

“This is my first dream to be on my own, get my own apartment, paying
rent, paying bills, like a normal adult does,” said Cinthia Mendoza, one
of Porters neighbors.

Domestic violence forced Mendoza out of her home and into foster care
when she was 17. Now, at 21, she’s showing me around her new apartment.
She listed off the appliances at her new residence.

“Behind the door there’s a refrigerator, a huge one, which I’ve never
had in my life. And then a microwave, and then I have a big stove, and
it’s brand new. Everything was brand new when I got here,” she said.

Mendoza is one of the lucky ones. There are far more low-income youth
who need housing than there are subsidized apartments available.
Technically, Mendoza and Porter could qualify for federal public housing
instead of living at Mercy.

Mercy Housing's building is located along a streetcar line in San
Francisco.(Photo credit: Shawn Wen/Youth Radio)
<https://youthradio.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/IMG_1318.jpg>
Mercy Housing’s building is located along a streetcar line on Ocean
Avenue in San Francisco. (Photo credit: Shawn Wen/Youth Radio)

“It’s very simple,” said Ron Ashford, a director at the federal housing
authority. “[Young adults looking for public housing] just need to find
their local housing authority, go to the housing authority and apply.”

But for young adults, the problem isn’t applying; it’s getting in. Their
demographic is considered a lower priority.

Ashford explains, “Remember that you are competing against families who
do not have a home. When I was in the New York City Housing Authority
some 20 years ago, the waiting list was more than 10 years.”

In San Francisco, the waiting list for public housing is so long that
it’s closed for the time being. There’s another obstacle specific to
young adults: being enrolled in college classes presents extra rules
that limit access to Section 8 federal housing.

“We need to be rethinking some of these rules around housing for
students,” said Eric Rice,
a professor of social work at the University of Southern California.

Rice’s work includes a focus on homeless youth. He says he’s frustrated
that taking a few courses can jeopardize a young person’s ability to get
housing.

“Because if we have students who are homeless who are low-income, they
need higher education as a long-term solution for alleviating their
situation with respect to poverty. And we want to make that easier, not
harder,” Rice said.

Before 2005, students didn’t have to meet such strict rules when it came
to public housing. But then a scandal broke, in which well-off college
athletes in schools across the country were caught living in Section 8
public housing
<http://espn.go.com/college-football/news/story?id=2237493>. This
controversy prompted the rules to change
<https://www.federalregister.gov/articles/2008/08/21/E8-19435/eligibility-of-students-for-assisted-housing-under-section-8-of-the-us-housing-act-of-1937>,
affecting most full- and part-time students.

This is just one reason local solutions like Mercy Housing have popped
up, to provide alternatives for 18 to 24-year-olds. The nonprofit
welcomes students, but has to limit student residents to part-timers to
qualify for federal tax credits. These tax credits make it possible to
build this sort of public housing alternative in the first place.

The Mercy apartments on Ocean Avenue are situated right across the
street from San Francisco City College. This was an intentional decision
on the part of Mercy, to make it easier for the young residents to
enroll if they choose to.

These student-residents don’t have to worry about being kicked out of
their homes just for taking a few classes.

 

Featured on Morning Edition
<https://youthradio.org/outlets/morning-edition/>

Tags: homeless <https://youthradio.org/tag/homeless/>, homeless youth
<https://youthradio.org/tag/homeless-youth/>, Mercy
<https://youthradio.org/tag/mercy/>, Mercy Housing
<https://youthradio.org/tag/mercy-housing/>, public housing
<https://youthradio.org/tag/public-housing/>, rents
<https://youthradio.org/tag/rents/>, San Francisco
<https://youthradio.org/tag/san-francisco/>, Section 8
<https://youthradio.org/tag/section-8/>

Produced by Brandon McFarland
<https://youthradio.org/producers/brandon-mcfarland/>, Ed Cavagnero
<https://youthradio.org/producers/ed-cavagnero/>, Rebecca Martin
<https://youthradio.org/producers/rebecca-martin/>, Teresa Chin
<https://youthradio.org/producers/teresa-chin/>

Edited by Ed Cavagnero <https://youthradio.org/editors/ed-cavagnero/>,
Rebecca Martin <https://youthradio.org/editors/rebecca-martin/>

Education

<https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/education/>


        Follow us:

  * //

    <https://www.facebook.com/youthradiopage/>
  * //

    <https://twitter.com/youthradio>
  * //

    <https://www.youtube.com/user/youthradio>
  * //

    <https://www.instagram.com/youthradio/> 


          Education

Don't wait until January! Now you can complete the FAFSA beginning
October 1st!
FAFSA Just Got Easier For College Students
<https://youthradio.org/journalism/education/fafsa-just-got-easier-for-college-students/>

*November 13, 2016* by Amber Ly <https://youthradio.org/staff/amber-ly/>

6554314203_013a2d5fe9_o
Gen-Z Done ‘Keeping Up’ With The Election
<https://youthradio.org/journalism/education/gen-z-done-keeping-up-with-the-election/>

*November 06, 2016* by Jasmine Bilir
<https://youthradio.org/staff/jasmine-bilir/>

  * Marco Oliveira YR Commentator
    <https://youthradio.org/uncategorized/marco-oliveira-yr-commentator/>
  * Unaccompanied Siblings Trade Home for a New Life
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/unaccompanied-siblings-trade-home-for-a-new-life/>

  * Vibe N’ Thrive: Episode 9
    <https://youthradio.org/yr-raw/raw-show/vibe-n-thrive-episode-9/>
  * Youth Radio Podcast: In The System
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/podcasts/youth-radio-podcast-in-the-system/>

  * How To Use Social Media For Justice IRL
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/tech/how-to-use-social-media-for-justice-irl/>

  * Destiny Of A Dishwasher
    <https://youthradio.org/new-options/destiny-of-a-dishwasher/>
  * Eyeliner for The Revolution: thoughts on living stealth
    post-election
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/outloud/eyeliner-for-the-revolution-thoughts-on-living-stealth-post-election/>

  * Inherent Prejudices and Blatant Racism Hit Close to Home
    <https://youthradio.org/yr-raw/student-content/inherent-prejudices-and-blatant-racism-hit-close-to-home/>

  * Vibe N’ Thrive: Episode 8
    <https://youthradio.org/uncategorized/vibe-n-thrive-episode-8/>
  * Police Turn Water Cannons On Dakota Access Pipeline Protest (PHOTOS)
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/police-turn-water-cannons-on-dakota-access-pipeline-protest-photos/>

  * Marco Oliveira YR Commentator
    <https://youthradio.org/uncategorized/marco-oliveira-yr-commentator/>
  * Unaccompanied Siblings Trade Home for a New Life
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/unaccompanied-siblings-trade-home-for-a-new-life/>

  * Vibe N’ Thrive: Episode 9
    <https://youthradio.org/yr-raw/raw-show/vibe-n-thrive-episode-9/>
  * Youth Radio Podcast: In The System
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/podcasts/youth-radio-podcast-in-the-system/>

  * How To Use Social Media For Justice IRL
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/tech/how-to-use-social-media-for-justice-irl/>

  * Destiny Of A Dishwasher
    <https://youthradio.org/new-options/destiny-of-a-dishwasher/>
  * Eyeliner for The Revolution: thoughts on living stealth
    post-election
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/outloud/eyeliner-for-the-revolution-thoughts-on-living-stealth-post-election/>

  * Inherent Prejudices and Blatant Racism Hit Close to Home
    <https://youthradio.org/yr-raw/student-content/inherent-prejudices-and-blatant-racism-hit-close-to-home/>

  * Vibe N’ Thrive: Episode 8
    <https://youthradio.org/uncategorized/vibe-n-thrive-episode-8/>
  * Police Turn Water Cannons On Dakota Access Pipeline Protest (PHOTOS)
    <https://youthradio.org/journalism/police-turn-water-cannons-on-dakota-access-pipeline-protest-photos/>


*Listen Now* //


            Youth Storytelling

  * Journalism <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/>
      o Education <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/education/>
      o Health <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/health/>
      o Juvenile Justice
        <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/juvenile-justice/>
      o outLoud <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/outloud/>
      o Science <https://youthradio.org/category/journalism/science/>
  * Interactive <https://youthradio.org/category/apps/>
  * Arts <https://youthradio.org/category/arts/>
      o Remix Your Life
        <https://youthradio.org/category/arts/remix-your-life/>
  * YR Raw <https://youthradio.org/category/yr-raw/>
      o Raw Show <https://youthradio.org/category/yr-raw/raw-show/>
      o Student Content
        <https://youthradio.org/category/yr-raw/student-content/>


            Featured Media Partners


      NPR <http://www.npr.org/>marketplace
      <http://www.marketplace.org/>Stitcher
      <http://www.stitcher.com/>Huffington-Post-Logo
      <http://www.huffingtonpost.com/>


  * About

    <https://youthradio.org/about/>
      o Announcements <https://youthradio.org/category/announcements/>
      o Jobs <https://youthradio.org/jobs/>
      o Outlets & Partners <https://youthradio.org/outlets-and-partners/>
      o Press <https://youthradio.org/press/>
  * Mission

    <https://youthradio.org/mission/>
  * For Educators

    <https://youthradio.org/for-teachers/>

Search for:

  * //

    <https://www.facebook.com/youthradiopage/>
  * //

    <https://twitter.com/youthradio>
  * //

    <https://www.youtube.com/user/youthradio>
  * //

    <https://www.instagram.com/youthradio/> 

1701 Broadway • Oakland, CA 94612 • ph 510.251.1101 • fax 510.899.8789

Read our Privacy Policy

<https://youthradio.org/privacy-policy/> © 2016 Youth Radio

×


        Search Youth Radio

Search for:

×


        Sign Up For Youth Radio's Newsletter

Email Address:

First Name:

Last Name:

:)
