1.5M ratings
277k ratings


  See, that’s what the app is perfect for.

Sounds perfect

Wahhhh, I don’t wanna

<https://www.tumblr.com/?referring_blog=storiesbehindthefog&referer=optica>

<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/>

<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/>


image <https://www.facebook.com/storiesbehindthefog>   image
<https://twitter.com/storiesfog>   image
<https://www.instagram.com/storiesbehindthefog/>

REVEALING STORIES OF PEOPLE AFFECTED BY HOMELESSNESS IN THE BAY AREA

Inspired by a film titled 'Moses' <http://moses.movie/>, this multimedia
project is fiscally sponsored by
the International Documentary Association. You can support it with a
tax-deductible donation.


Donate <http://www.documentary.org/film/moses-stories-behind-fog>

  * About <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/about>
  * Moses <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/moses>
  * Get Involved <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/getinvolved>
  * Partners <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/partners>
  * Archive <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/archive>


    /“I much rather be homeless than a victim of domestic violence.” Queen/


    /“I’m thrown into this lions den with all these different
    personalities and different energies, it’s overwhelming.”/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Love can sometimes be the worst that could happen to you. Blinded by you
heart can lead you into fucked up situations. Much like it did for me,
who ended up on the streets, cuz of love. I was going to marry this
fellow, my significant other, who ended up being a wife beater. I
experienced domestic violence and decided right away, to hit the road. I
went from Oakland across the bay to San Francisco, the city of
possibilities. I’ve been living on the streets for over eight months.

I come from a pretty good life, you know, so this all is extremely
stressful to me. It’s like I’m thrown into this lions den with all these
different personalities and different energies, it’s overwhelming.


    /“I used to be an artist, did landscape photography and had my face
    and voice on TV. I’ve had art shows for my images; it’s my true
    passion in life.”/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

I used to be an artist, did landscape photography and had my face and
voice on TV. I’ve had art shows for my images; it’s my true passion in
life, the artistic side. It was my grandma who taught me the importance
of art at a young age. She was my artistic mentor who helped me found my
niche.

I grew up in New York, raised in a big devoted family with like nine
siblings. My grandparents have been a part of my entire childhood,
helping my parents with the job of raising an army of kids. Growing up
in New York, sure, is a bit different; it’s a place where you have to be
strong, smart and tough to survive at a young age. It’s this huge
playground of different cultures and customs. Something I’ve always
loved about growing up in the Big Apple, how diverse life could be, just
around the corner. And I don’t really see it as different cultures, I
see us all as one, it’s all my culture and it’s all yours.

So, I could go call my family, instead of being without a home but I’m
not doing that, no way. I’m going to get through this shit myself and
learn whatever I ‘need’ to learn. I also know how pissed my family would
be, on him and over the fact I’m homeless. I’m doing myself and my
family a favor by working really hard and doing everything I can to get
out of this hole.

I’m no god damn bumming slob walking around looking for the next buzz.
I’ve always strived for goodness and want to achieve greatness. I go to
church every morning for some breakfast, or to like, charge my phone. I
also go to Labor Ready, a place where you get paid the same day as you
work. I have a storage where I keep all my stuff, costing my like two
hundred bucks each month. So just like the rest of you, I also have
responsibilities, even though I lack a home, which Labor Ready helps me
keep up.  And people steal shit, from the streets and the shelters. Just
the other day I saw this lady at this shelter. She had an appointment
but apparently took too long so they threw her stuff away, just like
that. All her important documents including her birth certificate, now
all gone. I helped her look for it in the trash but it wasn’t there, so
someone must have stolen it.


    /“Another weird and bizarre aspect of living on the streets is the
    paradox of how I dress. Some people say: I’m not helping you, I
    don’t believe you’re really homeless, you look too good for that.”/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Another weird and bizarre aspect of living on the streets is the paradox
of how I dress. Since I have my storage of clothes I try to look
respectable, shower every day and look good. So people will talk to me,
cuz people won’t talk to you if you look like a slob, that’s just how it
is. But then I’ve meet these people that say shit like, “I’m not helping
you, I don’t believe you’re really homeless, you look too good for
that”. Like why the fuck would I lie about being homeless? That’s
something I find tough, the cold and harsh eyes from those people; it
makes me not wanting to connect. Something that’s so far away from the
real me, I used to love and meet and greet everyone I met; now it’s just
hard, so damn hard to keep a straight face.


    /“Homelessness comes in all shapes, sizes and walks of life, and you
    can’t always judge people by their circumstances.”/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If there is something I’ve learned from all this, the fact we all need
to acknowledge more; homelessness comes in all shapes, sizes and walks
of life, and you can’t always judge people by their circumstances. I
sure never thought I was going to end up homeless on the streets. All I
want now is some stability with my own home, so I once again can do what
I love: my Art.

sfhomelessproject
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/sfhomelessproject>homeless <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/homeless>homelessness
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/homelessness>storiesbehindthefog
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/storiesbehindthefog>sbtf
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/sbtf>sanfrancisco
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/sanfrancisco>mosesmovie
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/mosesmovie>

2 notes
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/146275548070/i-much-rather-be-homeless-than-a-victim-of#notes>2
notes

 1.

    <http://franguijarro.tumblr.com/>franguijarro
    <http://franguijarro.tumblr.com/> liked this
 2.

    <http://storiesbehindthefog2.tumblr.com/>storiesbehindthefog2
    <http://storiesbehindthefog2.tumblr.com/> liked this
 3.

    <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/>storiesbehindthefog
    <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/> posted this

Jun 21st, 2016
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/146275548070/i-much-rather-be-homeless-than-a-victim-of>

<#>

  * Open in app

    <#>
  * Facebook

    <http://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F146275548070%2Fi-much-rather-be-homeless-than-a-victim-of&t=>
  * Tweet

    <https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%E2%80%9CI%20much%20rather%20be%20homeless%20than%20a%20victim%20of%20domestic%20violence.%E2%80%9D%20Queen%5B%5BMORE%5D%5D%E2%80%9CI%E2%80%99m%20thrown%20into%20this%20lions...%20https%3A%2F%2Ftmblr.co%2FZOk9Jh28Eixkc>
  * Reddit

    <https://reddit.com/submit?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F146275548070%2Fi-much-rather-be-homeless-than-a-victim-of>
  * Mail

    <mailto:?subject=A%20post%20from%20storiesbehindthefog&body=%E2%80%9CI%20much%20rather%20be%20homeless%20than%20a%20victim%20of%20domestic%20violence.%E2%80%9D%20Queen%5B%5BMORE%5D%5D%E2%80%9CI%E2%80%99m%20thrown%20into%20this%20lions%20den%20with%20all%20these%20different%20personalities%20and...%20https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F146275548070%2Fi-much-rather-be-homeless-than-a-victim-of>
  * Embed

    <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/146275548070/i-much-rather-be-homeless-than-a-victim-of/embed>
  * Permalink
    /

    /

    <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/146275548070/i-much-rather-be-homeless-than-a-victim-of>

<https://www.tumblr.com/reblog/146275548070/8eGPru0T>


    More you might like


    /“The city doesn’t see us, and they don’t want to see us. To them,
    we’re just expenses and logistical issues.” Carl/

image

Keep reading
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/145377716395/the-city-doesnt-see-us-and-they-dont-want-to?is_related_post=1>

sbtf <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/sbtf>homeless
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/homeless>homelessness
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/homelessness>sfhomelessproject
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/sfhomelessproject>sanfrancisco
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/sanfrancisco>storiesbehindthefog
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/storiesbehindthefog>mosesmovie
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/mosesmovie>

2 notes
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/145377716395/the-city-doesnt-see-us-and-they-dont-want-to?is_related_post=1#notes>

<#>

  * Open in app

    <#>
  * Facebook

    <http://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F145377716395%2Fthe-city-doesnt-see-us-and-they-dont-want-to%3Fis_related_post%3D1&t=>
  * Tweet

    <https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%E2%80%9CThe%20city%20doesn%E2%80%99t%20see%20us%2C%20and%20they%20don%E2%80%99t%20want%20to%20see%20us.%20To%20them%2C%20we%E2%80%99re%20just%20expenses%20and%20logistical...%20https%3A%2F%2Ftmblr.co%2FZOk9Jh27PB_Yh>
  * Reddit

    <https://reddit.com/submit?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F145377716395%2Fthe-city-doesnt-see-us-and-they-dont-want-to%3Fis_related_post%3D1>
  * Mail

    <mailto:?subject=A%20post%20from%20storiesbehindthefog&body=%E2%80%9CThe%20city%20doesn%E2%80%99t%20see%20us%2C%20and%20they%20don%E2%80%99t%20want%20to%20see%20us.%20To%20them%2C%20we%E2%80%99re%20just%20expenses%20and%20logistical%20issues.%E2%80%9D%20Carl%5B%5BMORE%5D%5D%E2%80%9CI%E2%80%99m%20not%20a%20bad%20person%2C%20but...%20https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F145377716395%2Fthe-city-doesnt-see-us-and-they-dont-want-to>
  * Embed

    <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/145377716395/the-city-doesnt-see-us-and-they-dont-want-to/embed>
  * Permalink
    /

    /

    <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/145377716395/the-city-doesnt-see-us-and-they-dont-want-to?is_related_post=1>

<https://www.tumblr.com/reblog/145377716395/JePLKuwb>


    /“I’m pursuing my dream of being a performer, even if living outside
    might consume me. That’s my way through life.” Ricky/

image

Keep reading
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/146276472410/im-pursuing-my-dream-of-being-a-performer-even?is_related_post=1>

sbtf
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/sbtf>storiesbehindthefog
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/storiesbehindthefog>mosesmovie
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/mosesmovie>homeless
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/homeless>homelessness
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/homelessness>sanfrancisco
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/sanfrancisco>northbeachcitizens
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/northbeachcitizens>sfhomelessproject
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/sfhomelessproject>

2 notes
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/146276472410/im-pursuing-my-dream-of-being-a-performer-even?is_related_post=1#notes>

<#>

  * Open in app

    <#>
  * Facebook

    <http://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F146276472410%2Fim-pursuing-my-dream-of-being-a-performer-even%3Fis_related_post%3D1&t=>
  * Tweet

    <https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%E2%80%9CI%E2%80%99m%20pursuing%20my%20dream%20of%20being%20a%20performer%2C%20even%20if%20living%20outside%20might%20consume%20me.%20That%E2%80%99s%20my%20way...%20https%3A%2F%2Ftmblr.co%2FZOk9Jh28EmTPQ>
  * Reddit

    <https://reddit.com/submit?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F146276472410%2Fim-pursuing-my-dream-of-being-a-performer-even%3Fis_related_post%3D1>
  * Mail

    <mailto:?subject=A%20post%20from%20storiesbehindthefog&body=%E2%80%9CI%E2%80%99m%20pursuing%20my%20dream%20of%20being%20a%20performer%2C%20even%20if%20living%20outside%20might%20consume%20me.%20That%E2%80%99s%20my%20way%20through%20life.%E2%80%9D%20Ricky%20%E2%80%9CThere%20are%20enough%20people...%20https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F146276472410%2Fim-pursuing-my-dream-of-being-a-performer-even>
  * Embed

    <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/146276472410/im-pursuing-my-dream-of-being-a-performer-even/embed>
  * Permalink
    /

    /

    <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/146276472410/im-pursuing-my-dream-of-being-a-performer-even?is_related_post=1>

<https://www.tumblr.com/reblog/146276472410/fD1upApZ>


    /“I want to receive a letter from the president once I turn 100.”
    Richard/

Keep reading
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/152038607240/i-want-to-receive-a-letter-from-the-president?is_related_post=1>

stories behind the fog
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/stories-behind-the-fog>drugs
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/drugs>homeless
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/homeless>yoga
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/yoga>stories
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/stories>

2 notes
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/152038607240/i-want-to-receive-a-letter-from-the-president?is_related_post=1#notes>

<#>

  * Open in app

    <#>
  * Facebook

    <http://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F152038607240%2Fi-want-to-receive-a-letter-from-the-president%3Fis_related_post%3D1&t=>
  * Tweet

    <https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%E2%80%9CI%20want%20to%20receive%20a%20letter%20from%20the%20president%20once%20I%20turn%20100.%E2%80%9D%20Richard%5B%5BMORE%5D%5D%20I%20was%20born%20in%20Union%20town%2C...%20https%3A%2F%2Ftmblr.co%2FZOk9Jh2DcDGc8>
  * Reddit

    <https://reddit.com/submit?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F152038607240%2Fi-want-to-receive-a-letter-from-the-president%3Fis_related_post%3D1>
  * Mail

    <mailto:?subject=A%20post%20from%20storiesbehindthefog&body=%E2%80%9CI%20want%20to%20receive%20a%20letter%20from%20the%20president%20once%20I%20turn%20100.%E2%80%9D%20Richard%5B%5BMORE%5D%5D%20I%20was%20born%20in%20Union%20town%2C%20but%20I%20grew%20up%20in%20Canonsfield%2C%20the%20ex-coke...%20https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F152038607240%2Fi-want-to-receive-a-letter-from-the-president>
  * Embed

    <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/152038607240/i-want-to-receive-a-letter-from-the-president/embed>
  * Permalink
    /

    /

    <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/152038607240/i-want-to-receive-a-letter-from-the-president?is_related_post=1>

<https://www.tumblr.com/reblog/152038607240/5GBhcaNq>

You scrolled this far. Check out the rest.Show more
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/>

