1.5M ratings
277k ratings


  See, that’s what the app is perfect for.

Sounds perfect

Wahhhh, I don’t wanna

<https://www.tumblr.com/?referring_blog=storiesbehindthefog&referer=optica>

<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/>

<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/>


image <https://www.facebook.com/storiesbehindthefog>   image
<https://twitter.com/storiesfog>   image
<https://www.instagram.com/storiesbehindthefog/>

REVEALING STORIES OF PEOPLE AFFECTED BY HOMELESSNESS IN THE BAY AREA

Inspired by a film titled 'Moses' <http://moses.movie/>, this multimedia
project is fiscally sponsored by
the International Documentary Association. You can support it with a
tax-deductible donation.


Donate <http://www.documentary.org/film/moses-stories-behind-fog>

  * About <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/about>
  * Moses <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/moses>
  * Get Involved <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/getinvolved>
  * Partners <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/partners>
  * Archive <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/archive>


    /“I’m pursuing my dream of being a performer, even if living outside
    might consume me. That’s my way through life.” Ricky/

image


    /“There are enough people just doing what others tell them to,
    without thinking; ruled by society itself.”/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

I’m almost 46 years old. I’ve been an acoustic guitar player for thirty
years. I play pawn shop guitars, because they’re cheap, and yet someone
would steal it while I’m sleeping. That’s happened to me a few times.
One of my dreams is to own a Martin guitar, but playing this kind of
instrument on a street corner makes you an easy target. I have a song
about stealing, because all of us do it you know, on some level.

    _some go to work __some go stealing __some try to work __but wound
    up stealing __stealing, stealing fortune and feelings _/stealing
    stealing something to believe in/

If you want a cup of coffee you gotta pay for it, right? How you’re
getting the funds for that cup is up to each individual. Either you
steal the money or you earn it, that’s your choice in life. I will not
steal or beg for that cup of coffee, I make my stand with music.


    /“I usually get a lot of compliments after a gig. Something that
    really keeps me going on my journey through fire and flames.”/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

I normally stick to rock. I have indoor gigs, but haven’t really had one
in some time now. When I do play though, I usually get a lot of
compliments after a gig. Something that really keeps me going on my
journey through fire and flames.

I play on the streets too. I really enjoy the acoustics from the BART
stations. Sometimes I play in North Beach, by the City Lights Bookstore,
in the Mission, or at The Wharf. The life of a walking zombie performer
can be damn cold, especially when the rain pours down and you feel like
shit. image

The worst part is how people look at you, you know, when you’re wiping
snot because of a damn cold you can’t get over, cuz you’re homeless. I
don’t blame them though, society kind of shapes it that way. You just
don’t want to end up homeless on the street. The threat of being
homeless, seen as an outcast, is just too large. To not be fully
accepted by the society. And I gotta say, it took me years to overcome
that feeling of being despised everywhere you went.

I’m in this position cuz I’m pursuing my dream of being a performer,
even if living outside might consume me. That’s my way through life. I
have my guitar; with that I’m unstoppable, in my mind. I dare to step
outside of the norms and follow the dreams. There are enough people just
doing what others tell them to, without thinking; ruled by society itself.

I would never just go and work at Target. To me, that’s worse than being
homeless. You have these people you know, saying stuff like, ”you need
to get a real job, shower and cut your hair.” What the fuck are they
defining as a real job? Going to a depressing office every day? No,
thank you.


    /“The people who run the world want you to struggle, cuz they make
    more money then. When people are happy, they buy less.”/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The craziest part though, is that the people who run the world, they
want this. They want you to struggle, cuz they make more money then.
They truly want us to live in chaos, because when people are happy they
buy less.

Being happy everyday in my shoes; that’s no walk in the park, I can tell
you that much. I’ve chosen this path for myself and will, together with
music, continue my journey through life. Always will I try, try to keep
my head up high and do what makes me happy. No matter how many eyes of
disgust I meet.

If you do see me somewhere around the city, don’t feel sorry for me, cuz
I don’t feel sorry for you. What I’ve learned through life is, that in
general, you shouldn’t feel sorry for the individual but rather groups
of people that are being mistreated. Sure, it may look like I need a lot
of help but, really, I don’t, and I definitely don’t need your pity.


    /“AA meetings are a great fucking place for free coffee.”/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you do end up on the streets though, my best advice is, mind your own
business and think about how you are gonna pay for that cup of coffee.
Are you gonna earn it or are you gonna steal it?

Oh, I forgot to mention, AA meetings, a great fucking place for free
coffee. If it’s good, you sit through and listen with your ears wide
open. Of course some people go there to lighten their souls, but
seriously, I’m telling you, many of them go there to get coffee.”

sbtf
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/sbtf>storiesbehindthefog
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/storiesbehindthefog>mosesmovie
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/mosesmovie>homeless
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/homeless>homelessness
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/homelessness>sanfrancisco
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/sanfrancisco>northbeachcitizens
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/northbeachcitizens>sfhomelessproject
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/sfhomelessproject>

2 notes
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/146276472410/im-pursuing-my-dream-of-being-a-performer-even#notes>2
notes

 1.

    <http://franguijarro.tumblr.com/>franguijarro
    <http://franguijarro.tumblr.com/> liked this
 2.

    <http://storiesbehindthefog2.tumblr.com/>storiesbehindthefog2
    <http://storiesbehindthefog2.tumblr.com/> liked this
 3.

    <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/>storiesbehindthefog
    <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/> posted this

Jun 21st, 2016
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/146276472410/im-pursuing-my-dream-of-being-a-performer-even>

<#>

  * Open in app

    <#>
  * Facebook

    <http://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F146276472410%2Fim-pursuing-my-dream-of-being-a-performer-even&t=>
  * Tweet

    <https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%E2%80%9CI%E2%80%99m%20pursuing%20my%20dream%20of%20being%20a%20performer%2C%20even%20if%20living%20outside%20might%20consume%20me.%20That%E2%80%99s%20my%20way...%20https%3A%2F%2Ftmblr.co%2FZOk9Jh28EmTPQ>
  * Reddit

    <https://reddit.com/submit?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F146276472410%2Fim-pursuing-my-dream-of-being-a-performer-even>
  * Mail

    <mailto:?subject=A%20post%20from%20storiesbehindthefog&body=%E2%80%9CI%E2%80%99m%20pursuing%20my%20dream%20of%20being%20a%20performer%2C%20even%20if%20living%20outside%20might%20consume%20me.%20That%E2%80%99s%20my%20way%20through%20life.%E2%80%9D%20Ricky%20%E2%80%9CThere%20are%20enough%20people...%20https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F146276472410%2Fim-pursuing-my-dream-of-being-a-performer-even>
  * Embed

    <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/146276472410/im-pursuing-my-dream-of-being-a-performer-even/embed>
  * Permalink
    /

    /

    <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/146276472410/im-pursuing-my-dream-of-being-a-performer-even>

<https://www.tumblr.com/reblog/146276472410/fD1upApZ>


    More you might like


    /“The city doesn’t see us, and they don’t want to see us. To them,
    we’re just expenses and logistical issues.” Carl/

image

Keep reading
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/145377716395/the-city-doesnt-see-us-and-they-dont-want-to?is_related_post=1>

sbtf <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/sbtf>homeless
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/homeless>homelessness
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/homelessness>sfhomelessproject
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/sfhomelessproject>sanfrancisco
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/sanfrancisco>storiesbehindthefog
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/storiesbehindthefog>mosesmovie
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/mosesmovie>

2 notes
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/145377716395/the-city-doesnt-see-us-and-they-dont-want-to?is_related_post=1#notes>

<#>

  * Open in app

    <#>
  * Facebook

    <http://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F145377716395%2Fthe-city-doesnt-see-us-and-they-dont-want-to%3Fis_related_post%3D1&t=>
  * Tweet

    <https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%E2%80%9CThe%20city%20doesn%E2%80%99t%20see%20us%2C%20and%20they%20don%E2%80%99t%20want%20to%20see%20us.%20To%20them%2C%20we%E2%80%99re%20just%20expenses%20and%20logistical...%20https%3A%2F%2Ftmblr.co%2FZOk9Jh27PB_Yh>
  * Reddit

    <https://reddit.com/submit?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F145377716395%2Fthe-city-doesnt-see-us-and-they-dont-want-to%3Fis_related_post%3D1>
  * Mail

    <mailto:?subject=A%20post%20from%20storiesbehindthefog&body=%E2%80%9CThe%20city%20doesn%E2%80%99t%20see%20us%2C%20and%20they%20don%E2%80%99t%20want%20to%20see%20us.%20To%20them%2C%20we%E2%80%99re%20just%20expenses%20and%20logistical%20issues.%E2%80%9D%20Carl%5B%5BMORE%5D%5D%E2%80%9CI%E2%80%99m%20not%20a%20bad%20person%2C%20but...%20https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F145377716395%2Fthe-city-doesnt-see-us-and-they-dont-want-to>
  * Embed

    <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/145377716395/the-city-doesnt-see-us-and-they-dont-want-to/embed>
  * Permalink
    /

    /

    <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/145377716395/the-city-doesnt-see-us-and-they-dont-want-to?is_related_post=1>

<https://www.tumblr.com/reblog/145377716395/JePLKuwb>


    /“I much rather be homeless than a victim of domestic violence.” Queen/

Keep reading
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/146275548070/i-much-rather-be-homeless-than-a-victim-of?is_related_post=1>

sfhomelessproject
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/sfhomelessproject>homeless <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/homeless>homelessness
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/homelessness>storiesbehindthefog
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/storiesbehindthefog>sbtf
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/sbtf>sanfrancisco
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/sanfrancisco>mosesmovie
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/mosesmovie>

2 notes
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/146275548070/i-much-rather-be-homeless-than-a-victim-of?is_related_post=1#notes>

<#>

  * Open in app

    <#>
  * Facebook

    <http://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F146275548070%2Fi-much-rather-be-homeless-than-a-victim-of%3Fis_related_post%3D1&t=>
  * Tweet

    <https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%E2%80%9CI%20much%20rather%20be%20homeless%20than%20a%20victim%20of%20domestic%20violence.%E2%80%9D%20Queen%5B%5BMORE%5D%5D%E2%80%9CI%E2%80%99m%20thrown%20into%20this%20lions...%20https%3A%2F%2Ftmblr.co%2FZOk9Jh28Eixkc>
  * Reddit

    <https://reddit.com/submit?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F146275548070%2Fi-much-rather-be-homeless-than-a-victim-of%3Fis_related_post%3D1>
  * Mail

    <mailto:?subject=A%20post%20from%20storiesbehindthefog&body=%E2%80%9CI%20much%20rather%20be%20homeless%20than%20a%20victim%20of%20domestic%20violence.%E2%80%9D%20Queen%5B%5BMORE%5D%5D%E2%80%9CI%E2%80%99m%20thrown%20into%20this%20lions%20den%20with%20all%20these%20different%20personalities%20and...%20https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F146275548070%2Fi-much-rather-be-homeless-than-a-victim-of>
  * Embed

    <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/146275548070/i-much-rather-be-homeless-than-a-victim-of/embed>
  * Permalink
    /

    /

    <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/146275548070/i-much-rather-be-homeless-than-a-victim-of?is_related_post=1>

<https://www.tumblr.com/reblog/146275548070/8eGPru0T>


    /“I used to volunteer for** the Clintons. Now I go from shelter to
    shelter.” Bonnie/

image

Keep reading
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/152616350530/i-used-to-volunteer-for-the-clintons-now-i-go?is_related_post=1>

dogs <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/dogs>sanfrancisco
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/sanfrancisco>hillary
clinton
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/hillary-clinton>homeless
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/homeless>stories behind
the fog
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/tagged/stories-behind-the-fog>

2 notes
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/152616350530/i-used-to-volunteer-for-the-clintons-now-i-go?is_related_post=1#notes>

<#>

  * Open in app

    <#>
  * Facebook

    <http://facebook.com/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F152616350530%2Fi-used-to-volunteer-for-the-clintons-now-i-go%3Fis_related_post%3D1&t=>
  * Tweet

    <https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=%E2%80%9CI%20used%20to%20volunteer%20for%20the%20Clintons.%20Now%20I%20go%20from%20shelter%20to%20shelter.%E2%80%9D%20Bonnie%5B%5BMORE%5D%5D%20My%20name%20is...%20https%3A%2F%2Ftmblr.co%2FZOk9Jh2E8fBD2>
  * Reddit

    <https://reddit.com/submit?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F152616350530%2Fi-used-to-volunteer-for-the-clintons-now-i-go%3Fis_related_post%3D1>
  * Mail

    <mailto:?subject=A%20post%20from%20storiesbehindthefog&body=%E2%80%9CI%20used%20to%20volunteer%20for%20the%20Clintons.%20Now%20I%20go%20from%20shelter%20to%20shelter.%E2%80%9D%20Bonnie%5B%5BMORE%5D%5D%20My%20name%20is%20Bonnie.%20I%20used%20to%20volunteer%20for%20the%20Clintons%20in...%20https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F152616350530%2Fi-used-to-volunteer-for-the-clintons-now-i-go>
  * Embed

    <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/152616350530/i-used-to-volunteer-for-the-clintons-now-i-go/embed>
  * Permalink
    /

    /

    <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/post/152616350530/i-used-to-volunteer-for-the-clintons-now-i-go?is_related_post=1>

<https://www.tumblr.com/reblog/152616350530/NXGd9POd>

See the rest of this TumblrShow more
<https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/>

