KQED Menu

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Menu

    <#>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs & Blogs

        <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Special Coverage

        <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  *


      KQED News

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

  * KQED News Home

    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Arts and Culture

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
      o Economy

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/economy/>
      o Education

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/education/>
      o Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o Immigration

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/immigration/>
      o Environment

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/environment/>
      o Housing

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>
      o Law and Justice

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/law-and-justice/>
      o Politics and Government

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/politics-and-government/>
      o Science

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/>
      o Sports

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/sports/>
      o Technology

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/technology/>
      o Transportation

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/transportation/>
  * Programs <#> Programs & Blogs

    <#>
      o News Fix

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>
      o The California Report

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/the-california-report/>
      o Forum

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/forum/>
      o Future of You

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/futureofyou/>
      o KQED Newsroom

        <http://www.kqed.org/tv/programs/newsroom/>
      o Love In The Digital Age

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/arts-and-culture/love-in-the-digital-age/>
      o MindShift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/mindshift/>
      o Bay Curious

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/baycurious>
      o Perspectives

        <http://www.kqed.org/radio/programs/perspectives/>
      o State of Health

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/stateofhealth/>
      o The Lowdown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/lowdown/>
      o Truth Be Told

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/truthbetold/>
      o Video

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/video/>
  * Special Coverage

    <#>
      o Boomtown

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/boomtown/>
      o Drawn to the Bay

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/mark-fiore-drawn-to-the-bay/>
      o Election 2016

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/election-2016>
      o El Niño

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/science/tag/el-nino/>
      o Immigrant Shift

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/california-immigrants-at-work>
      o SF Homeless Project

        <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project/>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California


  KQED News <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/>

Search

<#search-container>


  KQED News Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Search for:

News Fix <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/programs/news-fix/>


  ‘To Have and Have Not’: The Early Days of Bay Area Homelessness

A still from the 1983 KQED documentary, "To Have and Have Not." (/KQED/)

By Stephen Talbot
June 27, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/to-have-and-have-not-a-look-back-at-the-early-days-of-the-bay-areas-homeless-problem/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/to-have-and-have-not-a-look-back-at-the-early-days-of-the-bay-areas-homeless-problem/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/to-have-and-have-not-a-look-back-at-the-early-days-of-the-bay-areas-homeless-problem/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/to-have-and-have-not-a-look-back-at-the-early-days-of-the-bay-areas-homeless-problem/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/to-have-and-have-not-a-look-back-at-the-early-days-of-the-bay-areas-homeless-problem/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/to-have-and-have-not-a-look-back-at-the-early-days-of-the-bay-areas-homeless-problem/?share=email&nb=1>
*

Once upon a time there were no homeless people in San Francisco. Or
California. Or the country, for that matter. Really. At least not in the
way we have come to define “the homeless.”

I remember when I first saw homeless people on the streets of San
Francisco. It was fall of 1982 and I was producing a local documentary
for KQED called “To Have and Have Not” about the growing gap between
rich and poor in San Francisco.

Recession, unemployment, cutbacks in federal support and a breakdown in
mental health services — all this formed a perfect storm.

Sound familiar?

In the Tenderloin and other run-down corners of the city, my TV crew and
I began to notice and speak with people who told us they had nowhere to
live. I’d been renting a place in the city for five years. I was
accustomed to a few panhandlers downtown, winos and derelicts in the
Tenderloin, some runaways in the Haight. But this was different.

Suddenly, St. Anthony’s Dining Hall was swamped with people needing a
free meal. Emergency shelters were overrun. At night, people huddled in
storefronts in the rain.

*Homelessness is a complex issue. Learn more >>
<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>*

sfproject3 <http://ww2.kqed.org/news/series/sf-homeless-project>

“We’re seeing more and more women and children,” Clare Doyle, the
director of a Catholic-run soup kitchen in the Mission, told us. “More
families. More children who come in here by themselves, sometimes with
jars saying, ‘Can I have some soup to take home to my mom?’ ”

tohaveandhavenot
A still from the 1983 KQED documentary. (KQED)

This was shocking and it was new. Homeless people in San Francisco. No
one was sure how many, but emergency shelters were taking in close to a
thousand, while many more eked out a life in the alleys and the parks.

Why was this happening?

For one thing, we were in the middle of a recession. Twelve million
people were unemployed across the country, 1.5 million in California,
and 150,000 in the Bay Area. Manufacturing plants were shutting down,
people were hurting. It was the beginning of what we now know as “the
de-industrialization of America.”

Newsweek declared it “The Hard-Luck Christmas of ’82,” saying “with 12
million unemployed and 2 million homeless, private charity cannot make
up for federal cutbacks.”

And that was the other reason: cutbacks. Under President Ronald Reagan,
who was elected in 1980, the government had slashed federal housing
subsidies and poverty programs, including food stamps. Low-cost housing
was vanishing, especially in cities like San Francisco, where the
housing market was already tight and expensive.

A still from the 1983 KQED documentary, "To Have and Have Not."
A still from the 1983 KQED documentary, “To Have and Have Not.” (KQED)

There was at least one more cause of this new homeless calamity: the
closing of mental health hospitals without creating an adequate safety
net of neighborhood clinics and support services. This process had begun
in the ’70s but deepened every year. “We have a lot more people with
emotional problems,” Doyle told us at her shelter in the Mission. “A lot
of people who have been dumped out of the mental health system literally
with a handful of Thorazine and dumped on the streets.”

Recession, unemployment, cutbacks in federal support for housing and the
poor, and a breakdown in mental health services — all this formed a
perfect storm, and the victims were people we began to call “the homeless.”

It wasn’t as bad as the Great Depression of the 1930s, when a third of
the country was unemployed, and sprawling camps of the hungry and
desperate – “Hoovervilles” – emerged everywhere from New York’s Central
Park to downtown L.A.

But in some ways it had a nastier edge. The homeless in San Francisco in
the early 1980s lived in the midst of recession-proof wealth. They were
surrounded by those with old Pacific Heights money and the new
prosperity of Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and venture capitalists. In
Los Gatos, a Ferrari dealer told me he was experiencing record sales.
Sometimes customers forked over $80,000 in cash for a new sports car.

In my lifetime, which began in the postwar prosperity of the ’50s and
’60s, this “tale of two cities” clash was the beginning of the long era
of “income inequality” that has so divided our country.

A still from the 1983 KQED documentary, "To Have and Have Not."
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/to-have-and-have-not-a-look-back-at-the-early-days-of-the-bay-areas-homeless-problem/shelterthehomeless_crop/>
A still from the 1983 KQED documentary, “To Have and Have Not.”

A still from the 1983 KQED documentary, "To Have and Have Not."
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/to-have-and-have-not-a-look-back-at-the-early-days-of-the-bay-areas-homeless-problem/shelterthehomeless_1-2/>
A still from the 1983 KQED documentary, “To Have and Have Not.”

There are scenes in “To Have and Have Not” of homeless people and their
advocates starting to organize and march on City Hall to demand and
receive emergency shelter. There’s also a skirmish in which police drag
off some homeless men who refused to leave the temporary sanctuary of a
broken-down Muni bus.

In many ways, this is still what’s happening, still the way we treat the
homeless: provide services, which are ample but never enough, tolerate a
certain level of suffering on the streets, and resort to criminal
prosecution and even police shootings when someone feels threatened.

Thirty-four years after I first saw and filmed homeless people in the
City of St. Francis, I never expected to see this crisis still
festering, still unresolved. And I have the same thought I had back
then: We are a resilient, democratic, prosperous society, but at what
point does a city, a country, become so economically divided that it
tears itself apart?

/Stephen Talbot was a staff reporter and producer at KQED-TV from 1980
to 1989. He went on to become a producer for the PBS series “Frontline,”
but has returned to KQED over the years to produce documentaries like
“The Celebrity and the City” about Jerry Brown as mayor of Oakland and
the show “Sound Tracks: Music Without Borders.”
<http://www.pbs.org/soundtracks/> He just completed senior producing an
independent documentary in Indianapolis called “Under the Bridge: The
Criminalization of Homelessness.”
<https://www.facebook.com/underthebridgedoc/> Talbot now works for ITVS
<http://itvs.org/>, the San Francisco-based nonprofit that runs the
documentary series “Independent Lens.”/

Explore: Housing <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/housing/>, News
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/category/news/>, homelessness
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/homelessness/>, San Francisco
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/san-francisco/>, video
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/tag/video/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/to-have-and-have-not-a-look-back-at-the-early-days-of-the-bay-areas-homeless-problem/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/to-have-and-have-not-a-look-back-at-the-early-days-of-the-bay-areas-homeless-problem/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/to-have-and-have-not-a-look-back-at-the-early-days-of-the-bay-areas-homeless-problem/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/to-have-and-have-not-a-look-back-at-the-early-days-of-the-bay-areas-homeless-problem/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/to-have-and-have-not-a-look-back-at-the-early-days-of-the-bay-areas-homeless-problem/?share=tumblr&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/to-have-and-have-not-a-look-back-at-the-early-days-of-the-bay-areas-homeless-problem/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

4 Comments
<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/to-have-and-have-not-a-look-back-at-the-early-days-of-the-bay-areas-homeless-problem/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related

S.F. Homeless Problem Looks the Same as It Did 20 Years Ago

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/endless-efforts-meager-results>

Video: Mario Cuomo's Speech at 1984 Democratic Convention in San Francisco

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2015/01/02/video-mario-cuomos-speech-at-1984-democratic-convention-in-san-francisco>

San Francisco Adds Beds for the Homeless as Rain Pounds the City

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/01/23/san-francisco-adds-beds-for-the-homeless-as-rain-pounds-the-city>

Finding Redemption in West Oakland: One Man's Journey Back From the Streets

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/05/13/finding-redemption-in-west-oakland-one-mans-journey-back-from-the-streets>

Mass Deportation May Sound Unlikely, But It's Happened Before

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2015/09/08/mass-deportation-may-sound-unlikely-but-its-happened-before>

Why San Jose Is Barely in the Black Despite the Tech Boom

<http://ww2.kqed.org/news/2015/07/07/why-san-jose-is-barely-in-the-black-despite-the-tech-boom>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>


  Post navigation

Prev S.F. Homeless Problem Looks the Same as It Did 20 Years Ago

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/endless-efforts-meager-results/>
Next Supreme Court Strikes Down Most of Restrictive Texas Abortion Law

<https://ww2.kqed.org/news/2016/06/27/supreme-court-strikes-down-most-of-restrictive-texas-abortion-law/>



  About KQED

  * About <http://www.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://www.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://www.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://www.kqed.org/about/help/index.jsp>


  Follow KQED News

  * Follow Us on Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/KQEDnews>
  * Follow Us on Twitter <https://twitter.com/kqednews>
  * Connect on Instagram <http://instagram.com/kqednews>
  * Connect on Google+ <https://plus.google.com/117185877001714843452/posts>
  * Connect on YouTube <https://www.youtube.com/user/KQEDnews>

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<https://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

[blank image]
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil


  Get the facts!

Close

:)
