KQED Menu

  *


      KQED Arts

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>

  * KQED Arts Menu

    <#>

  * KQED Arts Home

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Topics

        <#>
      o Books

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/literature/>
      o Comedy

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/comedy/>
      o Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/culture/>
      o Dance

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/dance/>
      o Digital Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/digitalarts/>
      o Fashion/Design

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/design/>
      o Movies

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/music/>
      o News

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/news/>
      o Performance Art

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/performance/>
      o Pop Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/popculture/>
      o Theater

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/theater/>
      o TV

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/tv/>
      o Visual Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/visualarts/>
  * Programs

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Programs

        <#>
      o Art School

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/artschool/>
      o The Bay Bridged

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/affiliates/the-bay-bridged/>
      o Culture Cue

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/culture-cue/>
      o The Do List

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
      o Earful

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/earful/>
      o Film School Shorts

        <http://blogs.kqed.org/filmschoolshorts/>
      o ImageMakers

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/imagemakers/>
      o Into the Mix

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/into-the-mix/>
      o KQED Pop

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/pop/>
      o Spark

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/spark/>
      o Truly CA

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/trulyca/>
  * Specials

    <#>
      o


                  Back

                  <javascript:void(0)>

      o Specials

        <#>
      o Arts Education

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-in-education/>
      o Arts + Social Issues

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-plus-social-issues/>
      o pARTicipate

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/participate/>
      o Priced Out

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/pricedout/>
      o Our Creative Nature

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/our-creative-nature/>
      o Fall Arts Guide

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/fall-arts-guide-2016/>
  * The Do List

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
  * Videos

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/videos/>

  *


      KQED Arts

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>

  * KQED Arts Home

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Topics

    <#>
      o Books

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/literature/>
      o Comedy

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/comedy/>
      o Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/culture/>
      o Dance

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/dance/>
      o Digital Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/digitalarts/>
      o Fashion/Design

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/design/>
      o Movies

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/movies/>
      o Music

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/music/>
      o News

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/news/>
      o Performance Art

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/performance/>
      o Pop Culture

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/popculture/>
      o Theater

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/theater/>
      o TV

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/tv/>
      o Visual Arts

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/visualarts/>
  * Programs

    <#>
      o Art School

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/artschool/>
      o The Bay Bridged

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/affiliates/the-bay-bridged/>
      o Culture Cue

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/culture-cue/>
      o The Do List

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
      o Earful

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/earful/>
      o Film School Shorts

        <http://blogs.kqed.org/filmschoolshorts/>
      o ImageMakers

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/imagemakers/>
      o Into the Mix

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/into-the-mix/>
      o KQED Pop

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/pop/>
      o Spark

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/spark/>
      o Truly CA

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/trulyca/>
  * Specials

    <#>
      o Arts Education

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-in-education/>
      o Arts + Social Issues

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-plus-social-issues/>
      o pARTicipate

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/participate/>
      o Priced Out

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/pricedout/>
      o Our Creative Nature

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/our-creative-nature/>
      o Fall Arts Guide

        <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/fall-arts-guide-2016/>
  * The Do List

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/programs/the-do-list/>
  * Videos

    <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/videos/>

  * NPR

    <http://www.npr.org/>
  * PBS

    <http://www.pbs.org/>

  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Search

    <http://www.kqed.org/search/>

Go

Close


    Popular

  * KQED Home <http://www.kqed.org/>
  * Listen Live <http://www.kqed.org/radio/listen/>
  * Watch Episodes <http://video.kqed.org/>
  * Podcasts <http://www.kqed.org/podcasts/>
  * Radio Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/radio/schedules/daily/>
  * TV Schedules <http://www.kqed.org/tv/schedules/daily/>
  * Mobile/Apps <http://www.kqed.org/mobile/>
  * Donate <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>


    Sections

  * Radio <http://www.kqed.org/radio/>
  * TV <http://www.kqed.org/tv/>
  * News <http://www.kqed.org/news/>
  * Arts <http://www.kqed.org/arts/>
  * Food <http://www.kqed.org/food/>
  * Science <http://www.kqed.org/science/>
  * Education <http://www.kqed.org/education/>
  * Support KQED <http://www.kqed.org/support/>
  * About KQED <http://www.kqed.org/about/>



    	KQED
    	
    	
    	
    	

    <http://www.kqed.org/>

Public Media for Northern California


  KQED Arts <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/>

Search

<#search-container>


  KQED Arts Menu

  <#>

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Skip to content

<#content>

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

  *

Search for:

Detail from the Narratives of Displacement and Resistance Map

Detail from the Narratives of Displacement and Resistance Map (/Courtesy
of the Anti-Eviction Mapping Project/)

Arts + Social Issues
<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/series/arts-plus-social-issues/>


  ‘We Have a Right to Live Here’: Stories from San Francisco’s Evicted

By Sarah Hotchkiss <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/author/shotchkiss/>
<http://twitter.com/sahotchkiss>
June 29, 2016

Share

<#>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/we-have-a-right-to-live-here-personal-stories-from-san-franciscos-evicted/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/we-have-a-right-to-live-here-personal-stories-from-san-franciscos-evicted/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/we-have-a-right-to-live-here-personal-stories-from-san-franciscos-evicted/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/we-have-a-right-to-live-here-personal-stories-from-san-franciscos-evicted/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/we-have-a-right-to-live-here-personal-stories-from-san-franciscos-evicted/?share=email&nb=1>
*


  Sponsored by

Become a KQED sponsor <http://www.kqed.org/support/sponsorship/>

Maps, whether printed or pixelated, are purely utilitarian for most
people. But to the Anti-Eviction Mapping Project
<http://antievictionmappingproject.net/>, maps are a powerful, immediate
way to measure change.

The collective’s animated map of Ellis Act evictions
<http://www.antievictionmappingproject.net/ellis.html> in San Francisco
between 1994 and 2014 looks like a time lapse of a city-wide military
proving grounds, evictions blooming outward in circular explosions from
SOMA, the Mission and — really — everywhere within San Francisco’s 49
square miles. The data-visualization depicts evictions as sites of
violence, with rippling aftereffects.

Ellis Act Evictions map
Ellis Act Evictions map (Courtesy of Anti-Eviction Mapping Project)

As effective as this type of mapping is in providing a sense of history,
scale and geographic trends, the data remain abstract: number of tenants
evicted, addresses and dates. But the A(E)MP collective, a shifting
group of mostly volunteer housing rights activists, community organizers
and artists, doesn’t stop with numbers. Alongside number crunching and
data-visualization, they operate a storytelling and qualitative side of
their work, collecting narratives of displacement and resistance
<http://www.antievictionmappingproject.net/narratives.html>.

Allowing people to tell their own stories — of changing neighborhoods,
fights against eviction, and experiences of homelessness — in their own
words, the A(E)MP profiles the differences and similarities between
lived experiences in the current Bay Area housing crisis. Close to 100
oral histories, most around 1 hour in length, dot A(E)MP’s narrative
map. I dove in for some deep listening with suggestions from Erin
McElroy, one of A(E)MP’s founding members.

Tiye Silon Shepard, interviewed by Caleb Smith
Tiye Silon Shepard, interviewed by Caleb Smith (Courtesy of the
Anti-Eviction Mapping Project)


      ‘This is next-level’

In Caleb Smith’s interview of Tiye Silon Shepard
<https://soundcloud.com/anti-evictionmappingproject/sets/tiye-silon-shepard>,
the native San Franciscan compares her childhood in the Mission with her
relationship to the swiftly changing neighborhood today. Semi-seriously,
Shepard, who is Black, points to the appearance of white joggers near
her apartment as “the end.”

Her outlook on the neighborhood’s future is bleak. “The second they
started building condos on Mission Street, we just all need to find a
new place to go,” she says.

“I like not hearing gunshots outside my window at night,” she says, but
change is not categorically good. “Of course neighborhoods change over
time, but this is next-level, this is organized, this is purposeful,”
she says of the displacement she sees around her.

For her, gentrification is a new form of colonization. Instead of
violence, she sees the effects as emotional distress. “The folks who for
the last 20 years have lived in that neighborhood all come from a
colonized background,” she says. “So to have that trauma again hurts on
an even deeper level because you always feel like you’re being pushed
out of what you’ve tried to make your own.”

“People feel politically disenfranchised.”
Caleb Smith

Asked about the social and political effects of gentrification on San
Francisco, Shepard predicts, “I just think it’s going to turn into a
place where it’s gonna be a bunch of people who have no real emotional
investment in the city.”

Shepard’s interviewer wasn’t surprised by her outlook. Smith just
graduated with a degree in politics from University of San Francisco and
is spending the summer on a public policy fellowship in Sacramento.
“People feel politically disenfranchised,” he says. “There are measures
to try and slow gentrification and they don’t even pass. It’s hard to
identify anything that could potentially stop it.”

Mira Ingram, interviewed by Zeph Fishlyn
Mira Ingram, interviewed by Zeph Fishlyn (Courtesy of the Anti-Eviction
Mapping Project)


      ‘This is my family and my home and everything’

For Mira Ingram
<https://soundcloud.com/anti-evictionmappingproject/sets/mira-ingram>,
who moved to San Francisco when she was 25, the city was always a safe
haven, where she could be queer and punk and politically active without
fear of retribution. “I’m grateful every day that I’m here,” she says to
her interviewer Zeph Fishlyn <http://zephrocious.com/filter/highlights>.
“I always have some bit of gratitude that I’m at a place where people
understand me.”

In 1997 Ingram suffered an injury that ultimately caused her to become
disabled; she now uses a wheelchair. At almost the same time, she was
evicted from her Mission district apartment during the Bay Area’s first
tech boom. “It wasn’t a big deal then,” she says of the eviction in
retrospect. “It was more of a rare occurrence.” Today? “I would say
probably half or more of my close friends have been Ellis Acted out of
the city,” she says.

The tech buses that transport employees to and from Silicon Valley are
more than just symbols of a changing economy and population for Ingram —
they’re physical obstacles she can’t surmount in her wheelchair.

“It’s a loss of consciousness and awareness.”
Mira Ingram

“The city just lets the tech buses operate here, but they don’t pay any
attention to how it violates the rights of people with disabilities like
me,” she says. When tech buses pull up to curbs, Ingram explains, MUNI
buses are often forced to stop in the middle of the street, making it
impossible for them to lower their wheelchair ramps.

“I can’t tell you how many doctor’s appointments I’ve missed because the
tech buses are there,” she says. Beyond this serious inconvenience, she
see the buses as emblematic of an even larger problem: “It’s a loss of
consciousness and awareness that’s missing too. And that’s really sad.”

For now, Ingram’s living situation is stable, but she worries about what
might happen if she lost her place in public housing. “I don’t have
anywhere else to go,” she says. “This is my family and my home and
everything. I’ve got tons of medical problems and this is where I’ve got
it all set up.

“I would be here, and homeless,” she says, “before I would go somewhere
else.”

Zeph Fishlyn, 'Fabric: Raveling/Unraveling,' 2014. A participatory
visual arts project exploring LGBTQI experiences of home.
Zeph Fishlyn, ‘Fabric: Raveling/Unraveling,’ 2014.
A participatory visual arts project exploring LGBTQI experiences of
home. (Courtesy of the artist)

For Ingram’s interviewer, Ingram’s story hit very close to home. Fishlyn
has been evicted three times in the last four years, helping 35 people
move out of their homes in 2012 alone. In addition to Ingram, Fishlyn
interviewed about a dozen other subjects as part of /Fabric:
Raveling/Unraveling/, a visual art project for the 2014 National Queer
Arts Festival.

“The process of doing the interviews in some ways felt like one of the
most powerful pieces of it,” Fishlyn says of their artwork, which
brought together multiple stories of displacement to connect those
experiences of isolation. “It felt like therapy.”

Claudia Tirado, interviewed by Manissa Maharawal
Claudia Tirado, interviewed by Manissa Maharawal (Courtesy of the
Anti-Eviction Mapping Project)


      ‘I shouldn’t be doing this’

Claudia Tirado
<https://soundcloud.com/anti-evictionmappingproject/sets/claudia-tirado>
was busy fighting an eviction notice from her landlord (the late Google
attorney Jack Halprin
<http://valleywag.gawker.com/protestors-target-home-of-google-exec-accused-of-evicti-1562273315>)
when Manissa Maharawal interviewed her for A(E)MP. A mother and veteran
third-grade teacher, Tirado, like Ingram, points to a growing empathy
gap in the city.

“People don’t understand the difficulty of eviction if they have money,”
she says of those who can rely on financial support from family and
friends. “I don’t have funds. I’m a self-raised person.”

Tirado wants San Francisco to retain its spirit of acceptance and
celebration of diversity. “We all have to respect each other and our
differences. That’s what makes San Francisco awesome,” she says.
Different worlds — and different classes — can and should coexist in the
city.

“We have a right to live here /and/ to work here,” she adds. “There’s
nothing wrong with being a janitor, a teacher, a bus driver, a taxi
driver or a maid. What’s wrong is the lack of humanity and respect that
we get.”

“I just feel like a mother protecting her baby.”
Claudia Tirado

The eviction was a threat not just to Tirado’s home, but to her
relationship with her son’s father and to her own emotional well-being.
When Maharawal asks if the community organizing around Tirado’s eviction
is empowering, she says, “I don’t feel empowered at all. I still feel
like it’s a stronger force than I can rally up energy to fight sometimes.”

“I feel like…” she says before she trails off. Her voice breaks with
emotion. “I just feel like a mother protecting her baby.

“All this energy that I should be putting into my child and my
classroom, I have to put into fighting [Halprin]. I shouldn’t be doing
this.”

Maharawal, who has an oral history of her own
<https://soundcloud.com/anti-evictionmappingproject/manissa-clip> on the
A(E)MP page, says their two-hour interview was “a deeply personal and
intense experience.”

“Claudia told me that the interview was cathartic for her,” she says,
citing the oral history project’s overarching goals. “Eviction is a
destabilizing and alienating process. The interviews aim to create space
for solidarity, support and reflection.”

Michael Rouppet, interviewed by Manon Vergerio
Michael Rouppet, interviewed by Manon Vergerio (Courtesy of the
Anti-Eviction Mapping Project)


      ‘That was me’

Michael Rouppet
<https://soundcloud.com/anti-evictionmappingproject/sets/michael-rouppet>,
an HIV positive man who was homeless for nearly a year after being
evicted from his Alamo Square apartment, now volunteers with the San
Francisco AIDS Foundation <http://www.sfaf.org/>, providing services and
resources to the city’s most disenfranchised people.

Locked out of his apartment with just his dog, one satchel and the
clothes on his back, Rouppet is still trying to find out what happened
to all of his possessions. “I’d like to know and I’ve been asking the
court for two years, where are my things?” he says. “My wedding ring, my
family photos, my mother’s recipes, not just my clothes and my underwear
and my medication. My grandmother’s silver set. I’d like to know where
these things are.”

On the street, Rouppet suffered debilitating cellulitis. It was other
homeless people who took care of him. “The humanity that homeless people
show each other, they taught me so much,” he says.

“He’s setting the example we should all live by.”
Vince Crisostomo

Rouppet says volunteering with the SF AIDS Foundation helped him find
his bearings. Vince Crisostomo, manager of the foundation’s 50-Plus
Network
<http://sfaf.org/client-services/50-plus/?referrer=http://sfaf.org/hiv-info/hot-topics/from-the-experts/whats-new-with-50-plus.html>,
interjects in the recording. “When Michael talks about volunteering, it
goes so far beyond that,” he says. “It just makes me cry thinking about
it.”

When out in the field working with the city’s homeless population,
Crisostomo explains, Rouppet always reaches out to even the most
isolated individuals, saying, “That was me.”

“He’s setting the example we should all live by,” Crisostomo says. “We
should remember that that could be us.”

Narratives of Displacement and Resistance map. Red dots mark no-fault
evictions in San Francisco 1997-2015 and foreclosures in Alameda
2005-2015; blue dots mark oral histories.
Narratives of Displacement and Resistance map. Red dots mark no-fault
evictions in San Francisco 1997-2015 and foreclosures in Alameda
2005-2015; blue dots mark oral histories. (Courtesy of the Anti-Eviction
Mapping Project)

While A(E)MP’s maps, murals and community events make visible the
connections between global capital, real estate, high tech and the local
political economy, what emerges from the oral history project are the
effects of these entanglements on the city’s most vulnerable
individuals. To listen to someone’s story, told plainly and honestly, is
to momentarily inhabit their world, their struggles and goals. Empathy,
a quality so many of the oral history interviewees wish to see more of
in San Francisco, is the inevitable result.

When Rouppet’s interviewer Manon Vergerio asks what newcomers to the Bay
Area could do to better understand each other, and the homeless
population more specifically, he says, “Talk to them. Rather than
speaking for a population that doesn’t have representation, talk to them.”

Explore: Digital Arts <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/digitalarts/>,
News <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/category/news/>, feature
<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/tag/feature/>

  * Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/we-have-a-right-to-live-here-personal-stories-from-san-franciscos-evicted/?share=facebook&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/we-have-a-right-to-live-here-personal-stories-from-san-franciscos-evicted/?share=twitter&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/we-have-a-right-to-live-here-personal-stories-from-san-franciscos-evicted/?share=pinterest&nb=1>
  * Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/we-have-a-right-to-live-here-personal-stories-from-san-franciscos-evicted/?share=google-plus-1&nb=1>
  * Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)
    <https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/we-have-a-right-to-live-here-personal-stories-from-san-franciscos-evicted/?share=email&nb=1>
  *

1 Comment
<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/we-have-a-right-to-live-here-personal-stories-from-san-franciscos-evicted/#disqus_thread>
Hide Comments <#>

Related Posts from KQED Arts

Notes from Yolanda M. López’s 'Accessories to an Eviction'

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2014/07/01/notes-from-yolanda-m-lopezs-accessories-to-an-eviction/>

Priced Out: New Tech Wealth and San Francisco's Receding Art Scene

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2014/02/07/priced-out-new-tech-wealth-and-san-franciscos-receding-art-scene/>

In Oakland, Art Digs Residents Deeper into Place

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2014/10/22/in-oakland-art-digs-residents-deeper-into-place/>

Mission Local Announces Tech Bus Design Contest Winner

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2014/02/07/mission-local-announces-tech-bus-design-contest-winner/>

New Dogpatch Arts Complex Fuels Hope Amid Evictions and Closures

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/03/17/new-dogpatch-arts-complex-fuels-hope-amid-evictions-and-closures/>

Coltrane Church Told By San Francisco Sheriff It Has a Week To Relocate

<http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/02/24/coltrane-church-told-by-san-francisco-sheriff-it-has-a-week-to-relocate/>
Powered by

<https://contextly.com/>


    Author


      Sarah Hotchkiss

Sarah Hotchkiss is KQED Arts’ Visual Arts Editor, an artist
<http://www.sarahhotchkiss.com/> and half of Stairwell’s
<http://www.stairwells.org/>. Follow her at @sahotchkiss
<https://twitter.com/sahotchkiss>.

View all posts by this author
<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/author/shotchkiss/>


  Post navigation

Prev Rob Wasserman, Masterful Upright Bassist, Dies After Brief
Hospitalization

<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/rob-wasserman-masterful-upright-bassist-dies-after-brief-hospitalization/>
Next UC Davis Receives 4 More Thiebaud Paintings from a Former Professor

<https://ww2.kqed.org/arts/2016/06/29/uc-davis-receives-4-more-thiebaud-paintings-for-its-new-museum/>



  About KQED Arts

KQED Arts provides daily arts news, reviews and profiles for the San
Francisco Bay Area.

  * Contributors <http://ww2.kqed.org/arts/contributors/>
  * Contact Us <mailto:arts@kqed.org>


  About KQED

  * About <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/>
  * Jobs <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/jobs/>
  * Internships <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/internships/>
  * Donate to KQED <https://www.kqed.org/donate/>
  * Website help <http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/>

Funding for KQED Arts is provided by The William and Flora Hewlett
Foundation <http://www.hewlett.org/>.

The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation <http://www.hewlett.org/>

Support is also provided by the Kenneth Rainin Foundation and the
members of KQED.

Copyright © 2016 KQED Inc. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Service
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/terms-service/> | NEWPrivacy Policy
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/help/privacy/>| Contact Us
<http://ww2.kqed.org/about/contact/>

[blank image]
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.


  When you need an art fix!

Close

wmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgilwmkgil
:)
