SF Homeless Project
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=logo-lo_c9c5f5ebb63f---6286c006a24b>
Follow
<https://twitter.com/bayareahomeless><https://facebook.com/sfhomelessproject>
Sign in / Sign up
<https://medium.com/m/signin?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fsfhomelessproject.com%2Fbeing-homeless-can-make-you-crazy-e14841090ae9%3Fsource%3D---------60--------->
Home <https://sfhomelessproject.com/>About
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/to-the-city-and-people-of-san-francisco-484764406408>How
you can help
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/help-guide/widget/index.html><https://sfhomelessproject.com/search>
Next story


        How The Streets Took Me In

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/how-the-streets-took-me-in-e7a59951e028?source=read_next_metabar----------45>
11

  * Share
  *
    11

  *
*

Go to the profile of Ethel Hays

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@Ethel_hays?source=post_header_lockup>
Ethel Hays
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@Ethel_hays?source=post_header_lockup>BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Artist. Born California.
Jun 30

------------------------------------------------------------------------


  “Being homeless can make you crazy.”

Photo by Anna Vignet

I was born in Long Beach, California, in 1944. My father was a sailor
and we lived near the port, where the ships would dock before going to
war. He would always bring something back from Japan or China or Africa,
wherever his travels took him. Mom was a real good mother. Cooked three
meals a day, kept up a clean house, and took care of my two brothers and me.

We moved to Portland, Oregon a few years after I was born. It was a nice
life, but I found out early that in order to make money, you had to be
successful. For me and my family that meant straight A’s in school, if I
could get them. I didn’t know the first thing about school — I just knew
I had to study study study. My mom only had a 6th grade education and my
father just finished high school, so they made me work really hard.

My brother Joe was very popular in school. He had straight teeth and a
lot of friends. I was a nerd that studied all the time. I memorized the
math books, and I spent the rest of my time doing art, you know,
painting and drawing. All the teachers would always suggest that I
design the murals and the scenes for the school plays.

Eventually, we moved to a new house and I went to a new school. Every
day I wore purple lipstick and big eyelashes. I had a balloon hairdo. I
wasn’t really what you call popular, but I smiled and said hi to everybody.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When I graduated from high school, I started working in the canneries,
and when I could, I would take photographs and do layouts for the local
newspaper. I saved as much money as I could and enrolled at Pacific
University. Frankly, it was very difficult because the tuition was so
high. So after a year, I decided to transfer to Oregon State University.
My dad dug out a thousand bucks and bankrolled it. I remember getting in
a line and I’m the only one with a dad there, and they said, “Could you
write a check for this?” My dad said, “We don’t write checks,” and he
pulled out a wad of bills rolled up and handed them $1200 bucks.

But when I got some really bad grades, I had to drop out. I went back to
the cannery so that I could save up for school, again. Some time later,
I signed on for University of Oregon night school.

During the day, I would either pick strawberries at my friend’s fruit
farm or I would work for Denny’s. I got to be a blimp from working
there, like 150 pounds. But I met a guy I liked and he lived with me in
this co-op with about 15 other folks. But when I found out that my guy
was going with all of my roommates too, I was sad. My dad said, “come home.”

I went home and started picking strawberries again. I picked the
strawberries all summer. I can’t remember where I went to school next. I
think Portland State University. I stayed at Portland State University
for a long time and graduated with a 3.0 in humanities and social
sciences. But while I was in school, I started smoking marijuana a lot.
When the administration found out about the marijuana, they sent me to a
hospital, and I never smoked again. It didn’t stop me from drinking, though.

When I got out of the hospital, I was in a few different halfway houses.
I worked at the Hilton as a cocktail waitress and I used to drink up my
wages.

When I graduated, I went out to LA with a guy named John. He stole all
my art supplies and my briefcase and my leather coat. I was back to
nothing again. I was homeless and I couldn’t pay the rent. I didn’t know
what to do.

For a while, I had a side job painting for an art gallery in Texas
through this school fellowship. I would make a thousand dollars a month
painting for them and then I got two hundred dollars a month from social
security. But when that was over, I had trouble finding painting jobs in
Los Angeles.

I’ll tell you how I survived: I would take those shuttles from the
airport to a hotel and sleep in the janitor’s closet. Then in the
morning, I would find an empty room and I’d get cleaned up and get two
hours of sleep, and watch TV. Then I’d go back to the airport.

I found that I could go all over the United States doing this. I would
find these nice little hotels and get cleaned up, and then sit in an
all-day donut shop. Except for when the snow hit. When it got cold, I
would stay in the shelter, but the shelters had bugs. I know every
laundromat in the United States practically.

One day, when I was staying at the airport in Los Angeles, they arrested
me. The police. Just because I was homeless. I went to jail for four months.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Eventually, I went back to Hollywood to see John. That was a bad
decision. John was part of a gang and had made a deal with drugs. He
owed somebody for drugs and sold me to them. Then I was attacked by
these people. I have scars and everything, and a very bad memory, and
then a bus ran over me. That was in 1978.

Because of the gang bang and because of being run over, and my foot — I
was limping — they raised my social security to $600 a month. I had a
kid about eight months later.

That was when I started going to church eight hours a day.

I wanted to be a nun. I knew about this women’s homeless shelter on Skid
Row; some nuns there took care of me when I was pregnant. When I had the
kid, I didn’t get to keep him. These rich people named Mister and Missus
Connell got him and I didn’t even get visitation rights.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

After those 10 years in LA, I took the Greyhound to Portland and San
Francisco. I’d go to the bus station and get on the bus, and I would
lock myself in the bathroom. Then after about a half hour in this
stinking bathroom with that stuff sloshing around, and the smell getting
bad, I would come out of the bathroom and sit in a seat.

I rode the buses for four years. I’d get up to Portland, and I’d want to
come back to Los Angeles or Hollywood. There was a shelter in Chicago, a
shelter in Harvard, a shelter in New York, a shelter by LaGuardia, a
shelter in Washington, DC, a shelter in New something or other. New
Haven. A shelter in Texas. Other times, I slept in schools or on the
front stoop of churches.

After I had the kid, I didn’t want to handle money anymore. I only
wanted money if it had a lady’s picture on it, or if the person was
wearing lady’s clothes. I was dealing with some mental problems. I only
wanted to wear purple all the time, so I’d throw away perfectly good
clothes.

Being homeless can make you crazy. They called me schizophrenic.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

In 1995, they cut off my social security.

I had this check for six dollars that I never paid in Portland. They had
a warrant out for my arrest in the city, so I couldn’t go back. That’s
when they cut off the social security. For 10 years, I was homeless
without social security, mostly living in shelters in California. I went
and saw a psychiatrist at some point and he helped me try and get the
welfare checks back.

From ’95 until about 2003 I was living in Berkeley on and off. I would
get the rent and then I wouldn’t get the rent. In the summer, they
emptied the student houses in Berkeley. There was one student housing
that had the window open all the time. I used to go through the window
and get a shower and get cleaned up, get some rest. If I made a mess, it
didn’t matter. There was only the furniture for the summer. Pretty soon
they rented it to somebody. Then I’d sleep in the bushes and I’d sleep
in a church. A doorstep and then backyards.

In 2008, I got this lawyer team, a psychiatrist, a social worker for the
seniors. Together, they fought this case in Oregon and they dropped the
charges, and put me back on my social security. When I was sixty-five,
they decided to give me all my social security. Then I signed up for
city college classes and took painting and drama and drawing — all of
the art classes I could find.

I was living over by AT&T park. I finally got the room with the Section
8, and my neighbors were all on drugs. Someone broke into my room and
stole all of my stuff. All the material that I had from this school,
these people threw it out. I was left with boxes and notes, and all my
clothes are gone. All these beautiful clothes.

Judge Manley helped me find a shelter. Now, I’m cleaning up the garbage
on the streets.

Homeless
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/homeless?source=post>SFHomelessProject
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/sfhomelessproject?source=post>Personal
Stories
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/personal-stories?source=post>San
Francisco <https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/san-francisco?source=post>
11
#
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Go to the profile of Ethel Hays

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@Ethel_hays?source=footer_card>


      Ethel Hays <https://sfhomelessproject.com/@Ethel_hays>

Artist. Born California.

#
Follow
SF Homeless Project

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=footer_card>


      SF Homeless Project
      <https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=footer_card>

80 publishers, one focus.

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/neighbors-and-nuns-face-off-over-soup-kitchen-6c97e388fe73?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
More from SF Homeless Project
Neighbors and nuns face off over soup kitchen

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/neighbors-and-nuns-face-off-over-soup-kitchen-6c97e388fe73?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
Go to the profile of Mission Local

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@mlnow>
Mission Local
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@mlnow?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
1
<https://medium.com/@tonyzaret/hamilton-is-an-expensive-disappointment-3207cf1ef7f3?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-40>
Related reads
“Hamilton” Is An Expensive Disappointment

<https://medium.com/@tonyzaret/hamilton-is-an-expensive-disappointment-3207cf1ef7f3?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-40>
Go to the profile of Tony Zaret

<https://medium.com/@tonyzaret>
Tony Zaret
<https://medium.com/@tonyzaret?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-40>
32
<https://mindinindia.com/bi-polar-breakup-a-battle-of-love-and-hate-2d5e7d18146f?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Also tagged Personal Stories
Bi-Polar Breakup

<https://mindinindia.com/bi-polar-breakup-a-battle-of-love-and-hate-2d5e7d18146f?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Go to the profile of Chrissy Makris

<https://mindinindia.com/@crabapplecrow>
Chrissy Makris
<https://mindinindia.com/@crabapplecrow?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
6
Responses
Write a response…
Unknown user
No responses yet
Show all responses

×

Don’t miss Ethel Hays’s next story
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Ethel HaysEthel Hays
