Xodi LB <javascript:void(0)>
MissionLocal <http://missionlocal.org/>


MissionLocal

Sections

  * Español <http://missionlocal.org/category/en-espanol/>
  * News <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/>
      o Mission Fire <http://missionlocal.org/mission-fire-r/>
      o Technology
        <http://missionlocal.org/category/money/technology-money/>
      o Business <http://missionlocal.org/category/money/>
      o Culture <http://missionlocal.org/category/the-arts/>
          + Food <http://missionlocal.org/category/food-topics/>
          + SROs: Rooms out of View
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/sro-topics/>
          + Dolores Park
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/dolores-park-topics/>
      o Transit <https://missionlocal.org/category/topics/transportation/>
          + BART <http://missionlocal.org/category/bart/>
          + Bikes <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/bikes-topics/>
      o Education <http://missionlocal.org/category/hall-pass/>
          + Elementary Schools
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/hall-pass/elementary-schools-2/>
          + Middle Schools
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/hall-pass/middle-schools/>
          + High School
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/hall-pass/high-school-hall-pass/>
      o Stop! Ask. <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/stop-ask/>
      o Street Science
        <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/street-science/>
      o Housing <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/housing-topics/>
          + 24th Street <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/24th/>
          + Mission Street
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/mission-street-topics/>
          + Valencia Street
            <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/valencia-street-topics/>
  * Trouble <http://missionlocal.org/category/trouble/>
  * Restaurant Reviews <http://missionlocal.org/restaurant-reviews/>
  * Housing <http://missionlocal.org/housingwatch/>
  * Guide <http://missionlocal.org/newcomers/>
      o The Essential Guide <http://missionlocal.org/newcomers/>
      o Stories on Local History
        <http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/mission-history-topics/>
  * Events <https://missionlocal.org/mission-events/>
  * About <http://missionlocal.org/about/>
      o Shop <http://missionlocal.org/shop/>
  * Memberships <https://missionlocal.org/ml-membership/>
      o For Readers <http://missionlocal.org/ml-membership/>
      o For Business <http://missionlocal.org/ml-business-membership/>
      o We’ve Joined! Residents
        <http://missionlocal.org/contributing-members-page/>
      o We’ve Joined! Businesses <http://missionlocal.org/businessmembers/>
      o FAQs
        <https://missionlocal.org/2014/10/faqs-mission-locals-membership-drive/>
  * Advertise <http://missionlocal.org/advertise/>


  “I much rather be homeless than a victim of domestic violence.” – Queen

By Stories Behind the Fog, Posted June 28, 2016 12:30 pm
Facebook <http://missionlocal.org/#facebook>Twitter
<http://missionlocal.org/#twitter>Share
<https://www.addtoany.com/share#url=http%3A%2F%2Fmissionlocal.org%2F2016%2F06%2Fi-much-rather-be-homeless-than-a-victim-of-domestic-violence-queen%2F&title=%E2%80%9CI%20much%20rather%20be%20homeless%20than%20a%20victim%20of%20domestic%20violence.%E2%80%9D%20%E2%80%93%20Queen>

/This story originally appeared on Stories Behind the Fog, a collection
of narratives from homeless individuals, in their own words. This is
Queen’s story – she stays in a shelter in the Mission District. You can
see more stories here <https://storiesbehindthefog.tumblr.com/>. /

Love can sometimes be the worst that could happen to you. Blinded by you
heart can lead you into fucked up situations. Much like it did for me,
who ended up on the streets, cuz of love. I was going to marry this
fellow, my significant other, who ended up being a wife beater. I
experienced domestic violence and decided right away, to hit the road. I
went from Oakland across the bay to San Francisco, the city of
possibilities. I’ve been living on the streets for over eight months.

I used to be an artist, did landscape photography and had my face and
voice on TV. I’ve had art shows for my images; it’s my true passion in
life, the artistic side. It was my grandma who taught me the importance
of art at a young age. She was my artistic mentor who helped me found my
niche.

queen2
<http://i2.wp.com/missionlocal.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/queen2.jpg>

Mission Pie In Story <javascript:void(0)>

I grew up in New York, raised in a big devoted family with like nine
siblings. My grandparents have been a part of my entire childhood,
helping my parents with the job of raising an army of kids. Growing up
in New York, sure, is a bit different; it’s a place where you have to be
strong, smart and tough to survive at a young age. It’s this huge
playground of different cultures and customs. Something I’ve always
loved about growing up in the Big Apple, how diverse life could be, just
around the corner. And I don’t really see it as different cultures, I
see us all as one, it’s all my culture and it’s all yours.

So, I could go call my family, instead of being without a home but I’m
not doing that, no way. I’m going to get through this shit myself and
learn whatever I ‘need’ to learn. I also know how pissed my family would
be, on him and over the fact I’m homeless. I’m doing myself and my
family a favor by working really hard and doing everything I can to get
out of this hole.

queen3
<http://i0.wp.com/missionlocal.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/queen3.jpg>

I’m no god damn bumming slob walking around looking for the next buzz.
I’ve always strived for goodness and want to achieve greatness. I go to
church every morning for some breakfast, or to like, charge my phone. I
also go to Labor Ready, a place where you get paid the same day as you
work. I have a storage where I keep all my stuff, costing my like two
hundred bucks each month. So just like the rest of you, I also have
responsibilities, even though I lack a home, which Labor Ready helps me
keep up. And people steal shit, from the streets and the shelters. Just
the other day I saw this lady at this shelter. She had an appointment
but apparently took too long so they threw her stuff away, just like
that. All her important documents including her birth certificate, now
all gone. I helped her look for it in the trash but it wasn’t there, so
someone must have stolen it.

Another weird and bizarre aspect of living on the streets is the paradox
of how I dress. Since I have my storage of clothes I try to look
respectable, shower every day and look good. So people will talk to me,
cuz people won’t talk to you if you look like a slob, that’s just how it
is. But then I’ve meet these people that say shit like, “I’m not helping
you, I don’t believe you’re really homeless, you look too good for
that”. Like why the fuck would I lie about being homeless?

That’s something I find tough, the cold and harsh eyes from those
people; it makes me not wanting to connect. Something that’s so far away
from the real me, I used to love and meet and greet everyone I met; now
it’s just hard, so damn hard to keep a straight face.If there is
something I’ve learned from all this, the fact we all need to
acknowledge more; homelessness comes in all shapes, sizes and walks of
life, and you can’t always judge people by their circumstances. I sure
never thought I was going to end up homeless on the streets. All I want
now is some stability with my own home, so I once again can do what I
love: my Art.

queen4
<http://i0.wp.com/missionlocal.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/queen4.jpg>

/Read more at storiesbehindthefog.com <http://storiesbehindthefog.com/>.
This story was published as part of the citywide initiative of some 70
news organizations to cover homelessness. You can see the full range of
coverage here <http://www.sfgate.com/homeless/>./


Share this:

  * Print
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/06/i-much-rather-be-homeless-than-a-victim-of-domestic-violence-queen/#print>
  * Email
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/06/i-much-rather-be-homeless-than-a-victim-of-domestic-violence-queen/?share=email&nb=1>
  * More <#>
*

  *
  *
  *
  * Share on Tumblr
    <https://www.tumblr.com/share/link/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fmissionlocal.org%2F2016%2F06%2Fi-much-rather-be-homeless-than-a-victim-of-domestic-violence-queen%2F&name=%22I%20much%20rather%20be%20homeless%20than%20a%20victim%20of%20domestic%20violence.%22%20-%20Queen>
*


      /Related/

San Francisco Homeless Respond to Tent Ban
<http://missionlocal.org/2016/06/san-francisco-homeless-respond-to-tent-ban/>June
28, 2016In "Featured"

Today's Mission: 04.30.09
<http://missionlocal.org/2009/04/todays-mission-043009/>April 30, 2009In
"La Tira Comica"

Sweeps Move SF Mission Homeless Block to Block
<http://missionlocal.org/2016/03/sweeps-move-sf-mission-homeless-block-to-block/>March
23, 2016In "Featured"

Facebook <http://missionlocal.org/#facebook>Twitter
<http://missionlocal.org/#twitter>Share
<https://www.addtoany.com/share#url=http%3A%2F%2Fmissionlocal.org%2F2016%2F06%2Fi-much-rather-be-homeless-than-a-victim-of-domestic-violence-queen%2F&title=%E2%80%9CI%20much%20rather%20be%20homeless%20than%20a%20victim%20of%20domestic%20violence.%E2%80%9D%20%E2%80%93%20Queen>

Filed under: Featured <http://missionlocal.org/category/featured/>,
Front Page <http://missionlocal.org/category/front-page/>, Housing
<http://missionlocal.org/category/topics/housing-topics/>, Mobile
<http://missionlocal.org/category/mobile/>, Newsletter
<http://missionlocal.org/category/newsletter/>, SF Homeless Project
<http://missionlocal.org/category/sf-homeless-project/>, Today's Mission
<http://missionlocal.org/category/todays-mission/>

Tagged: homeless <http://missionlocal.org/tag/homeless/>, homelessness
<http://missionlocal.org/tag/homelessness/>


    You may also like:

#

  * File photo: Students participate in a workshop at Mission High
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/classroom-volunteers-sought-for-mission-schools/>Classroom
    Volunteers Sought for Mission Schools
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/classroom-volunteers-sought-for-mission-schools/>
  * Mi Pueblita near 24th. Photo by Lydia Chávez
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-margarita-party/>SNAP:
    Margarita Party? <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-margarita-party/>
  * Multikulti at 539 Valencia St. Photo by Joe Rivano Barros.
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/multikulti-on-valencia-street-to-close-after-16-years/>Multikulti
    on Valencia Street to Close After 16 Years
    <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/multikulti-on-valencia-street-to-close-after-16-years/>

Comments are closed.

Full name required to post. For full details, read our Policy
<http://missionlocal.org/terms#comments>	
Get Mission Local's Weekly Newsletter

Search for:

<http://www.facebook.com/missionlocalsf/> <http://twitter.com/mlnow/>
<http://www.vimeo.com/missionlocal/>
<http://instagram.com/missionlocal/> <http://missionlocal.org/feed/>
Snaps from the Community <https://missionlocal.org/missionlocalsnaps/>


    Today's Mission

  *


            Classroom Volunteers Sought for Mission Schools
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/classroom-volunteers-sought-for-mission-schools/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 5:25 pm

  *


            SNAP: Margarita Party?
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-margarita-party/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 2:58 pm

  *


            Multikulti on Valencia Street to Close After 16 Years
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/multikulti-on-valencia-street-to-close-after-16-years/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 2:53 pm

  *


            Schools Respond to Post-Election Fears With March in SF
            Mission
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/schools-respond-to-post-election-fears-with-march-in-sf-mission/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 2:13 pm

  *


            ML News Wire: Off to Salvador with a Bag of Books,...
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/ml-news-wire-off-to-salvador-with-a-bag-of-books-la-victorias-planned-bar-and-more/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 1:13 pm

  *


            Man Injured in Shooting Near Dolores Park
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/man-injured-in-shooting-near-dolores-park/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 10:56 am

  *


            3-Car Crash in SF’s Mission Sends Man to Hospital
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/3-car-crash-in-mission-district-this-morning/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 9:59 am

  *


            Facing Ageism with Dance, Photography, Fashion at ODC
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/facing-ageism-with-dance-photography-fashion-at-odc/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 9:00 am

  *


            In Stunner, City Strikes Down Major Mission Project
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/in-stunner-city-strikes-down-major-mission-project/>

    Posted November 16, 2016 6:00 am

  *


            Standing Rock Fund Raiser Tonight at the Make Out Room
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/standing-rock-fund-raiser-tonight-at-the-make-out-room/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 5:20 pm

  *


            Dolores Park “Eco Pop-Up” Deemed Successful
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/dolores-park-eco-pop-up-deemed-successful/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 4:40 pm

  *


            Two Men Injured, One Arrested in SF Mission Shootout
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/two-men-injured-one-arrested-in-sf-mission-shootout/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 11:17 am

  *


            SNAP: Banking is so Boring
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-banking-is-so-boring/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 10:56 am

  *


            News from Around the Bay: Wrongful Evictions and More
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/news-from-around-the-bay-wrongful-evictions-and-more/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 9:13 am

  *


            A Week After Trump, Leftist San Francisco Bookstore Modern
            Times Closes...
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/a-week-after-trump-modern-times-closes-doors/>

    Posted November 15, 2016 6:00 am

  *


            Two Injured in SF’s Mission After Shots Fired on Harrison
            Street
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/two-injured-in-sfs-mission-after-shots-fired-on-harrison-street/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 5:35 pm

  *


            Five Violent Robberies, Two Arrests in SF Mission Over
            Veteran’s Day...
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/five-violent-robberies-two-arrests-in-sf-mission-over-veterans-day-weekend/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 2:25 pm

  *


            SF’s Urban Film Festival
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/sfs-urban-film-festival/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 12:01 pm

  *


            Notes of Post-Election Empathy Adorn BART Station Walls
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/notes-of-post-election-empathy-adorn-bart-station-walls/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 11:40 am

  *


            SNAP: Breakfast on the Go
            <http://missionlocal.org/2016/11/snap-breakfast-on-the-go/>

    Posted November 14, 2016 10:56 am

••••
Mission Pie ORDER <javascript:void(0)>
Image
{{ title }}
{{ description }}

  * {{ comment.text }} - @{{ comment.from.username }}

{{ comment_count }} {{ comment_term }}{{ comment_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }} {{ like_count }} {{ like_term }}{{ like_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }}
ODC
A sneak peek of our children's chorus rehearsing for "The Velveteen
Rabbit"! See these talented kids onstage at the YBCA, Nov 25-Dec 11. Tix
at www.odc.dance/vr

  * Maya is in this! - @Berni Hui
  * - awesome - " "love . . . " - t-h-i-s - & Thanks So Much - ODC/Dance
    / ODC ! - @Catherine Kirsch

2 comments 4 likes
<https://ad.broadstreetads.com/click/81403>
Image
{{ title }}
{{ description }}

  * {{ comment.text }} - @{{ comment.from.username }}

{{ comment_count }} {{ comment_term }}{{ comment_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }} {{ like_count }} {{ like_term }}{{ like_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }}
Image
Dance Brigade's Dance Mission
Tonight! Don't sleep.
<https://ad.broadstreetads.com/click/85306>
Body Manipulations SR <javascript:void(0)>Brava SR Standing Rock
<javascript:void(0)>CASASF SR <javascript:void(0)>
Image
{{ title }}
{{ description }}

  * {{ comment.text }} - @{{ comment.from.username }}

{{ comment_count }} {{ comment_term }}{{ comment_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }} {{ like_count }} {{ like_term }}{{ like_count.length == 1 ? ''
: 's' }}
Image
Mission Comics and Art
Artist Brian Stelfreeze show his amazing skills with this cover to Black
Panther #8
<https://ad.broadstreetads.com/click/80991>

Copyright 2016, MissionLocal | Powered by WordPress and the CalPress
theme | Privacy Policy <http://missionlocal.org/terms#privacy> |
Register <http://missionlocal.org/wp-login.php?action=register> | Log in
<http://missionlocal.org/wp-login.php>

:)
Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address

loading Cancel <#cancel> Post was not sent - check your email addresses!
Email check failed, please try again
Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

Copied!
Facebook <http://missionlocal.org/#facebook>Twitter
<http://missionlocal.org/#twitter>Google+
<http://missionlocal.org/#google_plus>Pinterest
<http://missionlocal.org/#pinterest>Email
<http://missionlocal.org/#email>LinkedIn
<http://missionlocal.org/#linkedin>Reddit
<http://missionlocal.org/#reddit>Tumblr
<http://missionlocal.org/#tumblr>WordPress
<http://missionlocal.org/#wordpress>Google Gmail
<http://missionlocal.org/#google_gmail>WhatsApp
<http://missionlocal.org/#whatsapp>StumbleUpon
<http://missionlocal.org/#stumbleupon>AIM
<http://missionlocal.org/#aim>Amazon Wish List
<http://missionlocal.org/#amazon_wish_list>AOL Mail
<http://missionlocal.org/#aol_mail>App.net
<http://missionlocal.org/#app_net>Baidu
<http://missionlocal.org/#baidu>Balatarin
<http://missionlocal.org/#balatarin>BibSonomy
<http://missionlocal.org/#bibsonomy>Bitty Browser
<http://missionlocal.org/#bitty_browser>Blinklist
<http://missionlocal.org/#blinklist>Blogger Post
<http://missionlocal.org/#blogger_post>BlogMarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#blogmarks>Bookmarks.fr
<http://missionlocal.org/#bookmarks_fr>Box.net
<http://missionlocal.org/#box_net>BuddyMarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#buddymarks>Buffer
<http://missionlocal.org/#buffer>Care2 News
<http://missionlocal.org/#care2_news>CiteULike
<http://missionlocal.org/#citeulike>Copy Link
<http://missionlocal.org/#copy_link>Delicious
<http://missionlocal.org/#delicious>Design Float
<http://missionlocal.org/#design_float>Diary.Ru
<http://missionlocal.org/#diary_ru>Diaspora
<http://missionlocal.org/#diaspora>Digg
<http://missionlocal.org/#digg>diHITT
<http://missionlocal.org/#dihitt>Diigo
<http://missionlocal.org/#diigo>Douban
<http://missionlocal.org/#douban>Draugiem
<http://missionlocal.org/#draugiem>DZone
<http://missionlocal.org/#dzone>Evernote
<http://missionlocal.org/#evernote>Facebook Messenger
<http://missionlocal.org/#facebook_messenger>Fark
<http://missionlocal.org/#fark>Flipboard
<http://missionlocal.org/#flipboard>Folkd
<http://missionlocal.org/#folkd>Google Bookmarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#google_bookmarks>Google Classroom
<http://missionlocal.org/#google_classroom>Hacker News
<http://missionlocal.org/#hacker_news>Hatena
<http://missionlocal.org/#hatena>Instapaper
<http://missionlocal.org/#instapaper>Jamespot
<http://missionlocal.org/#jamespot>Kakao
<http://missionlocal.org/#kakao>Kik <http://missionlocal.org/#kik>Kindle
It <http://missionlocal.org/#kindle_it>Known
<http://missionlocal.org/#known>Line
<http://missionlocal.org/#line>LiveJournal
<http://missionlocal.org/#livejournal>Mail.Ru
<http://missionlocal.org/#mail_ru>Mendeley
<http://missionlocal.org/#mendeley>Meneame
<http://missionlocal.org/#meneame>Mixi
<http://missionlocal.org/#mixi>MySpace
<http://missionlocal.org/#myspace>Netlog
<http://missionlocal.org/#netlog>Netvouz
<http://missionlocal.org/#netvouz>NewsVine
<http://missionlocal.org/#newsvine>NUjij
<http://missionlocal.org/#nujij>Odnoklassniki
<http://missionlocal.org/#odnoklassniki>Oknotizie
<http://missionlocal.org/#oknotizie>Outlook.com
<http://missionlocal.org/#outlook_com>Pinboard
<http://missionlocal.org/#pinboard>Plurk
<http://missionlocal.org/#plurk>Pocket
<http://missionlocal.org/#pocket>Print
<http://missionlocal.org/#print>PrintFriendly
<http://missionlocal.org/#printfriendly>Protopage Bookmarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#protopage_bookmarks>Pusha
<http://missionlocal.org/#pusha>Qzone
<http://missionlocal.org/#qzone>Rediff MyPage
<http://missionlocal.org/#rediff>Renren
<http://missionlocal.org/#renren>Segnalo
<http://missionlocal.org/#segnalo>Sina Weibo
<http://missionlocal.org/#sina_weibo>SiteJot
<http://missionlocal.org/#sitejot>Skype
<http://missionlocal.org/#skype>Slashdot
<http://missionlocal.org/#slashdot>SMS
<http://missionlocal.org/#sms>Stumpedia
<http://missionlocal.org/#stumpedia>Svejo
<http://missionlocal.org/#svejo>Symbaloo Feeds
<http://missionlocal.org/#symbaloo_feeds>Telegram
<http://missionlocal.org/#telegram>Trello
<http://missionlocal.org/#trello>Tuenti
<http://missionlocal.org/#tuenti>Twiddla
<http://missionlocal.org/#twiddla>TypePad Post
<http://missionlocal.org/#typepad_post>Viadeo
<http://missionlocal.org/#viadeo>Viber
<http://missionlocal.org/#viber>VK <http://missionlocal.org/#vk>Wanelo
<http://missionlocal.org/#wanelo>Webnews
<http://missionlocal.org/#webnews>WeChat
<http://missionlocal.org/#wechat>Wykop
<http://missionlocal.org/#wykop>XING
<http://missionlocal.org/#xing>Yahoo Bookmarks
<http://missionlocal.org/#yahoo_bookmarks>Yahoo Mail
<http://missionlocal.org/#yahoo_mail>Yahoo Messenger
<http://missionlocal.org/#yahoo_messenger>Yoolink
<http://missionlocal.org/#yoolink>YouMob
<http://missionlocal.org/#youmob>Yummly
<http://missionlocal.org/#yummly>////
AddToAny <https://www.addtoany.com/>
Facebook

<http://missionlocal.org/#facebook>Twitter

<http://missionlocal.org/#twitter>Google+

<http://missionlocal.org/#google_plus>Pinterest

<http://missionlocal.org/#pinterest>Email

<http://missionlocal.org/#email>LinkedIn

<http://missionlocal.org/#linkedin>Reddit

<http://missionlocal.org/#reddit>Tumblr

<http://missionlocal.org/#tumblr>
Google Gmail

<http://missionlocal.org/#google_gmail>AOL Mail

<http://missionlocal.org/#aol_mail>Outlook.com

<http://missionlocal.org/#outlook_com>Yahoo Mail

<http://missionlocal.org/#yahoo_mail>Any email

<http://missionlocal.org/#email_form>Email app

<http://missionlocal.org/#email_form>
More…

