Top highlight
SF Homeless Project
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=logo-lo_c9c5f5ebb63f---6286c006a24b>
Follow
<https://twitter.com/bayareahomeless><https://facebook.com/sfhomelessproject>
Sign in / Sign up
<https://medium.com/m/signin?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fsfhomelessproject.com%2Fthey-really-messed-up-a-lot-of-people-you-know-75d2d6cd4275%3Fsource%3D---------42--------->
Home <https://sfhomelessproject.com/>About
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/to-the-city-and-people-of-san-francisco-484764406408>How
you can help
<http://projects.sfchronicle.com/sf-homeless/help-guide/widget/index.html><https://sfhomelessproject.com/search>
Next story


        Delaware Proves Ending Veteran Homelessness Is Possible

<https://medium.com/@SecretaryCastro/delaware-proves-ending-veteran-homelessness-is-possible-50f75a4bfa35?source=read_next_metabar----------43>
175
11

  * Share
  *
    175

  *
*

Go to the profile of Darcel Jackson

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@DarcelJackson?source=post_header_lockup>
Darcel Jackson
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@DarcelJackson?source=post_header_lockup>BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Jun 30

------------------------------------------------------------------------


  “They Really Messed Up a Lot of People, You Know?”


    When I told people I was broke, they didn’t believe me. But it
    happened. Now I’m asking: What do you do when you have a natural
    disaster?

Photo by Joe Rivano Barros/Mission Local

T*he first time I went *into the shelter, I was scared to death. All
those bunk beds, all those people. I was like, /Shit/.

I had a little money in my pocket, so I slept in my clothes with my
money in my pocket that night, because I just didn’t know: When I got
in, it was at night, and most of the people were asleep when I got in
there. During the day, when I looked around and seen what was what, got
oriented, it was a little easier.

I’d been couch hopping for a while, but I couldn’t get anything done. I
needed somewhere to stay.

Moving to the shelter is like volunteering to go to the county jail.
Essentially, that’s what it is. You’ve got a lot of people in there with
that criminal gang mentality, and you’ve got some people that are
earnestly trying to escape homelessness. I did a count, and it was
roughly 40 percent of the folks who really wanted to escape, they want
to use the shelter for what it’s for. But some folks is looking at it as
a permanent thing. They have no intention of getting a job or housing.
They like the fact that there’s a place that they can stay 90 days for
free, then they go and do the day-by-day thing until they get back into
a shelter.

But you, know, living with 340 people is… something. All the
personalities. People suffering from post-traumatic stress, mental
illness. Some people they’ve been to jail, and they have a prison
mentality want to turn it into a prison.

The main thing in the shelter is that people you were trying to help
would steal from you.

You’d be watching a movie on your computer, and they’d be sitting there
waiting on you to fall asleep so they can go by and grab it. You
couldn’t hardly get up: if you leave anything behind when you go to the
bathroom, you come back and it would be gone. And worse, they’d steal
from you, and they’d let you know they did it — because if you get into
an altercation it can result in you being on the street.

So you know, if they steal your phone, you just have to let it go. I had
two cell phones stolen from me. Hell, one guy stole my phone and tried
to sell it back to me. It was a free phone! I was like /Nah, I got this
phone for free: I couldn’t afford to pay for it when they gave it me,
what makes you think I can afford it now?/

It’s not a normal place. It’s very challenging to change your situation
because there’s a lot of negativity around you from the residents and
from the staff. You know, when you go into the shelter you’d think that
they have some sort of structured, tested plan: OK, this is what you do
when you are in here to get out. But nobody ever talked to you about
getting out. It’s /we can get you on this wavelength, that’s the best we
can do/. It’s not about changing yourself.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

I*never envisioned that I’d *end up in this situation. When the market
went south, I was a construction contractor, running my own business.
I’d take the jobs that others didn’t want — the little bitty ones, the
$38,000, $40,000 jobs. One time I had up to 17 employees, all with no
advertisements. It was like the jobs would just come in, because I
didn’t spend time marketing.

At one point, the business was generating almost a half a million
dollars a year. Of course, in construction work, the material costs a
lot of money and the labor is very expensive. Nobody works for minimum
wage, so you have to figure that in. I was living well. I got to count
the money first, so that was a good benefit.

But I didn’t see it coming. When it went down, I didn’t know what to do.
I kept employees, got attached to them and their families. I kept them
on payroll longer than I should have. It’s a mixture of a lot of some
bad business decisions, compassion for my employees, and sacrifices I
make for my children. When you’re making almost a half a million dollars
a year, you accumulate, your lifestyle changes. I had a big house. I had
several cars and trucks to do my business.

Then the work disappeared, but the bills didn’t go away. They’re
demanding to be paid and I paid them for as long as I could until I lost
all my revenue. Then I got a job that helped me pay off more. After I
stopped working, wasn’t able to work, I still had bills. I filed bankruptcy.

I actually made it three or four years before I ended up homeless, but I
exhausted every single resource I had over those four years. Then, at
the end of it, you have nothing. By the end I had to sell all of my
tools to survive, because they were just sitting there, they weren’t
earning any income, so I had to sell them.

My kids and my wife were resentful. They thought I did something wrong.
My wife, she says, What happened? She didn’t know. She’d never had to
work, and I kind of took care of everything. She really didn’t
understand the business — all she knew was that I got up every morning
and went to work somewhere.

And we had all this stuff. We had a beautiful home, cars. Whenever the
kids needed something, even if I couldn’t pay for it that day, I could
get it paid for in a week or so. We used to have vacations. We’d be
sitting around on Friday and say Let’s get in the car and drive to LA,
or go to visit some of my relatives, or her relatives. It got to the
point where we couldn’t do that. My kids, they really didn’t understand,
you know?

I would tell people /I’m broke/, and they would be /Aw, you’re not
broke./ They didn’t believe it. But it actually happened. My wife, we
separated. We’d never had a discussion about it, she just blamed me. She
thought I’d really done something wrong.

Right now I’m basically just trying to get myself on a level where I’ll
be able to help my children out and take care of myself and keep a roof
over my head.

You know, the thing about it is the banks and whoever was involved in
this bubble bursting, they really messed up a lot of people, you know?
They really altered the course of life for a bunch of folks.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Y*ou have to spend about *a month on the day-by-day thing, lining up and
waiting for a place to sleep each night. But then you get on a list, and
if you get to the top of the list you can get a stable bed in a shelter
for 90 days. Some people go get high and lose their beds, or go get
drunk somewhere and lose their beds. A lot of people come off the list,
so you could get back in there quick.

The 90-day bed is important because the thing is, once you get all these
one-nighters, getting sent to different places, that’s just as bad as
couch hopping. You can never get your basics. And if you get caught on
the weekend, you won’t get a bed.

I will do everything I can not to sleep on the damn sidewalk. That just…
you’re competing not only with other people, but with crawling things.
San Francisco’s notorious for the rats.

Eventually I got a bed on the second floor of a shelter. The biggest
thing up there was that I could get a bed next to the wall, to plug in
my electronics. People on beds in the middle of the room would run
extension cords across the aisles but staff would come by and unplug
them. So, after you’ve been there for a while, you see the coveted spots
and you go down there, you put your name on the list to get moved, and
if you get over by the wall, you’re good. You feel safer because there’s
one wall there, and another wall there, so you’ve only got to worry
about this bit out there.

In the middle of the floor, anybody can walk by your bed. If you’re in
the corner, somebody comes by and they ain’t from that general bed area,
you wonder /What are you doing over here? /And after a while you get
friends, like-minded friends. They look out for you. You can go to the
bathroom and your stuff will still be there when you get back.

When I moved to the shelter, I had made a joke, I said, /I know you guys
got a bed available because somebody died/. And that’s the bed they gave
me. Somebody had just died in it. I don’t know if I talked myself into
that bed or what.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

T*he thing that drove me* into the shelters was that I essentially had
two teenagers that were finishing high school and going off to college,
and I had to make a choice: Do I help this boy to go to college? I gave
him $3,500 — that was my whole $3,500. When I bought my daughter a car
for $2,400, because she needed it to go to school, that was the only
$2,400 I had. That’s money you give away, you don’t look for it back.
And if I hadn’t gone that, I would have only been able to be
not-homeless for four or five months. So I said, /Well, I might as well
do it now. It’s inevitable./

It was kind of rough. My kids knew I was in the shelter, and I explained
to them what I had to do. I said I wasn’t going to be able to help much.
I was going to be in a shelter for a while, trying to figure out what my
next move was going to be. But you want to protect your kids from that.

They came and visited me while I was in there. We could only spend the
day together, because I had to go in the shelter at night, and of course
they couldn’t come with me. But they came to see me, and we went to Pier
39, my son, my daughter, my granddaughter. My other son was off to
college. We went down there and hung out. I said, Don’t buy anything
down here. It’s grossly overpriced. But we can look and walk around. So
that’s what we did. I treated them to lunch: I had a Food Stamp card
that’s good at some restaurants, so I took them there and bought lunch
on my Food Stamp card.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

W*hen I was growing up* there was things happening. You had the hippies
and the Black Panthers. You just had a lot of stuff going on in the Bay
Area. I thought the whole world was the Bay Area. I was pretty proud to
be from here.

I went to college for a year, then I got hired. They had a job fair for
seniors, and I wasn’t doing anything so I wandered around, and this
chemical company hired me to sell their product. That was more money
than I’d ever made. I think I did it for about a year, traveled around
the United States. Visited Chicago, Detroit, Texas, St Cloud Minnesota,
St Paul Minnesota. I had a good time, but after about a year of living
in hotel rooms I wanted to come home. Then I went into this book-keeping
school on Market Street, they had a six month program. I went through it.

I joined the Union in the 80s, the laborer’s union, and I went from
there to the ironworker’s union. I was a welder, worked on the Bay
Bridge, City Hall, all over. I got injured and lost my job—I couldn’t
hang off a building and weld any more. That’s when I moved into
construction.

My first wife, I met her at a hamburger place, Kwik Way’s on Telegraph,
in Oakland. Me and a friend were going there to have a burger, and she
came in for something to eat, but she was trying to get to San
Francisco, asking directions. Hell, I lied, I gave her directions but I
was on unemployment at the time, but I just sugar-coated a bunch of
shit. She bought it. We both came over to San Francisco together and
hung out. We ended up getting married about two years later.

At some point she told me she had four kids. I didn’t believe her. She
was only 24 at the time, how can you have four kids if you’re 24 years
old? I thought that she was just trying to scare me off. Then I went and
visited her in Stockton and I met them all. I stopped and said /Wow/.
She used to bring the youngest kids with her all the time. We’d do
things like go fly kites, just hang out together. I didn’t have any
kids, so it was a big deal to me. Then she got pregnant with my daughter.

My oldest son, he’s called Darcel Cody. That was because one girl I
knew, she took me to a Kenny Rogers concert and I found out that his son
was called Cody, I thought that was just the best. Kenny Rogers! I
didn’t think I’d like it, but I’ll try anything.

My son, he’s graduating college now, so that was a good sacrifice. He’s
been able to go to school, choose a profession that he can enjoy. I
never got to do that. It was always about the paycheck.

If I got a job paying $5 an hour, fuck, I’d leave if I could get one
paying $10. And when I got one for $10, I’d leave if I could get one
paying $15. You know, that’s how my whole life has been. I went from $5
to $32 with benefits, and then I owned my own business.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

W*hen you’re homeless, you just *have to keep busy. The shelter is a
place where you live, but you need to stay away from it as much as
possible. Use it for just exactly what it’s designed for, as a resting
place. But there’s no programming going on; it’s just a place to sleep.
So when you’re not sleeping, you need to be out and about trying to find
something that you’re interested in. If you stay out of there, and stay
busy, it’s just like regular life. And if you stay at something long
enough, sooner or later you get good at it. Or you’ll get lucky and
stumble upon something — stumble upon some housing, stumble upon a job.
It’ll come, but you have to actively pursue it every day. You can’t just
sit around and wait for it to come to you.

See, in everything I’ve ever done in life, it’s the same. When I would
go to my construction job, the only difference between the labor or the
tradesmen, and the foreman, is the foreman can read the prints. So when
they’d see me coming — I don’t know why they was doing it — they rolled
up the prints and put them in a box. Until I went to the project
manager, and I said /Hey, you think I can have the old prints you guys
don’t need anymore, so I can go home and study them? Because I notice
that the guy that you guys are paying more than me, the only difference
between me and him is he can read the prints. So I need to teach myself
to read the prints./

And they said yeah.

It didn’t get me the promotion to the foreman, but it got me in a
position where I could do layouts. I could be the first guy on the job
to read the prints and go through with some chalk. They want production,
they don’t want you to think about what you have to do.

A lot of people I was in the shelter with, they were looking at me and
saying, /Man you’re really doing it./ But I explained to them that when
you get out of this shelter situation, you’re not going to pick up where
you left off. If you didn’t educate yourself in life, you’re still not
going to have an education. If you didn’t work a lot in your life,
you’re still not going to have a lot of work experience. So if you’re 30
or 40 years old and an employer says /Where have you been? What have you
been doing?/ you can’t say /Well I’ve just been homeless for the last 10
years./

You know, I’m a morning person. You up early, get it done, you know. The
way I look at it, everybody in the world has made their decisions by 12.
When people tell me they want to look for a job at 12, I’m like, /Man,
they’ve done decided who they want to hire already./

And if they have an emergency position to fill, that person who showed
up at 7 or 8 o’clock, they got the job because they know they can get up
early. They’re going to look at you and say, /Well, this guy’s going to
be late all the time. He didn’t get here to apply for the job until 12
o’clock. /So it’s a done deal.

I can’t help it, I get up every morning at 6 o’clock. You know, I don’t
have an alarm, I just get up. And I know I’ve got to go down there and
sweep in front of the building by 8. Sometimes I get there at 6:30,
sometimes at 7. I can get there before 8 every time.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

N*ow I live in low* income housing in the Mission. There’s six people in
this house, it’s a cooperative. I don’t agree with everything that goes
on in here. Three of my housemates have restraining orders against me.

I have a website, AskDarcel <http://askdarcel.org/>, and an app I’m
working on with ShelterTech. The app’s called Darcel’s List — it’s sort
of like Craigslist for poor people and the under-served. It will create
job opportunities for people: People who need jobs doing can list the
job, and people who can work will be able to take the job. I talked to
an architect today and he says You know, that’d be great. I could use it
because I’m always going to the planning commission to drop off papers
and I have to stand in these lines. He can click the app, hire somebody,
they can pick up the paper and drop it off, and when everything’s done
successfully, he’ll calculate their time and pay them.

Another guy, when we tested the app, he wanted somebody to come by and
wash his car and his wife’s car. I think they guy made about sixty bucks
cleaning the cars — he happened to be a detail person in his life before
he became homeless. He worked at a car wash, so he actually knew what he
was doing, he did a very good job. Darcel’s List will create job
opportunities for people. It will help people get some work experience.
When you haven’t worked for a long time, it’s a challenge to go
somewhere and work eight hours.

And the app pretty much provides all the resources that are available in
the city that we can find, and it has a virtual case manager that will
take your situation — because everybody’s different — and find you the
resources that you can benefit from.

People say it’s a great idea, but we’re not getting any funding to help
bring it to fruition. There seems to be plenty of money around, but not
for what we’re doing.

I was running for City Supervisor, District 9. Mission, Portola, parts
of Potrero, Bernal Heights. It’s a great district. It could be so much
more than what it is if we would all work together. It could be the
crown jewel of the city, but basically it’s got financial restraints.
This is an area that has been heavily gentrified. You’ve got four or
five families living in one house to try and stay close to work. A lot
of the people that live in this community, a good percentage of them, do
menial labor.

There are techies here, but they’re not problematic. If we started a
steel mill here, then steel workers would flock here from all parts of
the country to get work. That’s just natural — but we’re a mecca for
techies now, and they’re here. I don’t have a problem with them. I think
we need to learn how to include them in the process of solving some of
these problems we have, these social ills that we have.

What do you do when you have a natural disaster? You put revenue and
resources into solving it and bringing things back to normal. We’re
having a social disaster, a social hazard, homelessness.

I think you put the folks that are leaving prison or the county jail,
you mix them up with this homeless population — but the deal is that you
just get a bunch of desperate people living together. I don’t believe
you should. You know how misery loves company? You fester in that type
of environment. I think if people get proper help and if other people
act like they give a damn, they’ll grow.

The only thing that will get us out of it is to put people to work.
They’re not looking at that part. These folks have lives. I’d say 40
percent of them have a talent. We’re not tapping into that talent, that
knowledge, the ideas. Look at all these ideas I’ve come up with, and
nobody’s doing shit about it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

I*screwed up by being *in construction, which is fueled by the housing
industry, and that’s fueled by the bankers, and the bankers fucked up. I
was considered a success in my community, with my people. This is a guy,
he grows up in the neighborhood, he did a good job, he’s hiring people,
he’s taking good care of his family. I did what you’re supposed to do,
and I became a victim. I didn’t do anything wrong. All I did was be born
black in America.

I had a lot of possessions and I kept a decent amount of money, but I
didn’t have the skills to see a bit into the future. That’s what I’m
learning now. There’s certain signs and you can make adjustments whether
the market is down and up.

Like, the one for the chef program I went to, I looked at it a month
before I acted on it. It wasn’t something I really wanted to do. But I
think I read an article somewhere that there’s like three restaurants
for each person in San Francisco. And it’s because we get a million
tourists every day, so they have to feed them. Yeah. The entry level
positions don’t pay well. So I said, /Well, if I owned the restaurant,
I’d probably do better./ Then I checked around for some restaurant
space. One guy wanted to rent me his kitchen in a bar restaurant deal
for $2,500 a month. He said, /Well, you’ve got to keep the food salty so
people will buy the liquor./ For a beer, you know? I didn’t want to go
through that. To pay $2,500 and then, on top of that, rent and living
expenses?

So when I talked to a guy who owns the restaurant, he said, why don’t
you consider catering. All you need is access to a kitchen. And before
you do your catering, you really don’t got to buy or rent brick and
mortar. He said,/That’ll kill you, if you don’t have somebody behind
you, with a lot of money. /And I didn’t have anybody.

So I just went into catering and I do my own catering where I make a
couple hundred bucks a week doing that.

That’s the story of my life, getting prepared. The worst thing in the
world that can happen to you, is when the opportunity comes, and you’re
not prepared.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

/Visit //AskDarcel.org/ <http://askdarcel.org/>

Homeless <https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/homeless?source=post>San
Francisco
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/san-francisco?source=post>Homelessness
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/homelessness?source=post>SFHomelessProject
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/tagged/sfhomelessproject?source=post>
175
11
#
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Go to the profile of Darcel Jackson

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@DarcelJackson?source=footer_card>


      Darcel Jackson <https://sfhomelessproject.com/@DarcelJackson>

#
Follow
SF Homeless Project

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=footer_card>


      SF Homeless Project
      <https://sfhomelessproject.com/?source=footer_card>

80 publishers, one focus.

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/i-want-to-open-a-lgbtq-shelter-i-want-to-give-people-like-me-something-to-be-connected-to-lisa-fedfb9ffa00d?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
More on SFHomelessProject from SF Homeless Project
“I want to open a LGBTQ shelter. I want to give people like me something
to be connected to.” Lisa

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/i-want-to-open-a-lgbtq-shelter-i-want-to-give-people-like-me-something-to-be-connected-to-lisa-fedfb9ffa00d?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
Go to the profile of stories behind the fog

<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@storiesbehindthefog>
stories behind the fog
<https://sfhomelessproject.com/@storiesbehindthefog?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-45>
11
<https://medium.com/cuepoint/patti-smith-jefferson-airplane-ushered-us-through-the-summer-of-love-614348cc7e46?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Also tagged San Francisco
Patti Smith: Jefferson Airplane Ushered Us Through the Summer of Love

<https://medium.com/cuepoint/patti-smith-jefferson-airplane-ushered-us-through-the-summer-of-love-614348cc7e46?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Go to the profile of Recording Academy

<https://medium.com/@RecordingAcad>
Recording Academy
<https://medium.com/@RecordingAcad?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
31
<https://crossingenres.com/what-do-you-want-from-me-271b4853d065?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Also tagged Homelessness
What Do You Want From Me

<https://crossingenres.com/what-do-you-want-from-me-271b4853d065?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
Go to the profile of Tim Barrus

<https://crossingenres.com/@timbarrus>
Tim Barrus
<https://crossingenres.com/@timbarrus?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-43>
7
Responses
Write a response…
Unknown user
No responses yet
Show all responses

×

Don’t miss Darcel Jackson’s next story
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Darcel JacksonDarcel Jackson
