Stories Behind The Fog
<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/?source=logo-lo_c9c5f5ebb63f---fc690f83a660>
Follow
<https://twitter.com/storiesfog><https://facebook.com/storiesbehindthefog>
Sign in / Sign up
<https://medium.com/m/signin?redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fstoriesbehindthefog.com%2Fwere-just-two-kids-trying-to-make-it-work-ben-cristina-ca6fd8198aa8>
Home <https://storiesbehindthefog.com/>About
<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/about-c4323feebff7>Stories
<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/tagged/stories>Collaborators
<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/tagged/collaborators>Moses
<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/moses-a6c6e1ccd974>Get Involved
<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/get-involved-3a23acdd6b12>Partners
<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/partners-4324d861bb41><https://storiesbehindthefog.com/search>
Next story


        While I Have Everyone’s Attention…

<https://medium.com/@EdnaMiraRaia/while-i-have-everyone-s-attention-afba9a4c1f5a?source=read_next_metabar----------43>
22

  * Share
  *
    22

  *
*

Go to the profile of stories behind the fog

<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/@storiesbehindthefog?source=post_header_lockup>
stories behind the fog
<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/@storiesbehindthefog?source=post_header_lockup>BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Humanizing homelessness in San Francisco. One story at a time. Soon to
be published in a book.
Jun 24

------------------------------------------------------------------------


  “We’re just two kids trying to make it work.” Ben & Cristina

------------------------------------------------------------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cristina: We met in a bar when I was visiting a friend in Alabama. He
walked in wearing the ugliest sweater I had ever seen.

Ben: I liked the sweater; it wasn’t like intentionally ugly…

Cristina: Anyway, he came over to where I was sitting and ordered a
beer, and hung out next to me the whole night. We talked about
everything and anything, but I didn’t want anything to happen. I was
afraid if we kissed it would be bad.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


      “Vibrant is a good word for San Francisco.” Ben


      “It’s impossible to pee in this town!” Cristina

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ben: I would’ve found a way to mess it up probably. But now, we’ve been
together for a year and eight days. We just celebrated our anniversary.

Cristina: We’re out here in San Francisco trying to make a life for
ourselves. Alabama, the city where we’re from, is too small, there’s
nowhere to go. There’s very little social opportunity. You reach a
certain point where you’ve met everyone, and you can only expand your
social circle so far. You either have to be content with that or you
move on. I’ve recreated and reinvented myself and moved from town to
town, but it’s the first time with him, so I’m kinda just vicariously
living through my twenties again.

Ben: After my mom passed away, I said ‘Screw it’ and came out here. I
got her to come out behind me, but she got to fly. I got the full on,
twenty-five-hour road trip from Alabama to California. I got to San
Diego and then made my way up here, then went up to Eureka. Everything
is beautiful out here. I drove up Highway 101, and saw Big Sur… It
brought tears to my eyes, it was so beautiful.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


      “It’s kinda fun going through a coming of age story when you’re
      thirty, it’s a great big adventure out here.” Ben

------------------------------------------------------------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cristina: We went for a drive through the Redwoods. It looked like the
pictures in the textbooks. Everything’s covered in green moss and it’s
so green and vibrant.

Ben: Yeah, vibrant is a good word for San Francisco.

Cristina: Here, unlike Alabama, we meet a lot of people all day, everyday.

Ben: Which is fun.

Cristina: But being an unmedicated, introverted person, with extreme
social anxiety, it can be hard at times. I’m also a little too trusting
at times. After four months, it’s as if we just stepped off the bus,
kinda like tourists. We’ve been taken advantage of a few times.

Ben: And we’ve learned the hard way about trusting people. I like to
give people the benefit of the doubt, until proven otherwise, but we’ve
had to become a little more jaded.

Cristina: Since we’re homeless right now, which is temporary, we’re
trying to take advantage of what the city has to offer. We stay in a
hotel a few nights a week and stay in a shelter the rest of the days. We
have to supplement our money because we’re living off savings and Ben’s
inheritance. We’re doing better here than we were before. The best idea
would be to find a room with somebody but that’s difficult with
strangers, it’s always a risk, especially being a couple. It’s difficult
to shower, charge your phone, go to the bathroom, when you don’t have a
house. It’s impossible to pee in this town!

Ben: The way the housing works you have to be a productive member of
society, and have a job to contribute; you have to have at least
stability, right? You can’t get affordable housing unless you go through
Section 8 and essentially go on disability. But once you get on
disability and get a house, you can’t work, so you are left sitting in
your new house, which is affordable, but you have nothing to do. Then
you get bored, and with boredom, addiction comes along. It’s a vicious
cycle. I think San Francisco does a great job than any other city that I
can think of, but I think there is definitely something that’s
fundamentally wrong with the system. But I’d rather be homeless out here
than back home.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


      “I don’t want to call my parents until I have good news. They’re
      just waiting to see if this was a good choice on my part or
      not.” Kristina

------------------------------------------------------------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------

I think homeless people in general live this lifestyle by choice. They
don’t want to integrate into wherever they are or they’ve felt lost. You
can learn a lot from them, it doesn’t matter if they’re a
fifteen-year-old kid or an eighty-year-old man, you can learn so much or
at least get a good laugh.

Cristina: I just want to say that I disagree with you completely. I
don’t think a lot of people are here by choice. San Francisco is
insanely good to the homeless, but I think all of us are dealing with
issues of addiction or mental illness.

I’m a Psychology major, and schizophrenia has always been fascinating to
me. I’ve seen more cases of schizophrenia on the streets of San
Francisco in one day than I did back home. It’s heartbreaking that their
illness has pushed them onto the streets. They can’t get into shelters
because they seem violent and people are afraid to help them. I don’t
think people are homeless by choice; anybody would go inside if they could.

Ben: I’ve learned that you just don’t write somebody off because you see
them on the street. I didn’t say they were only here by choice; a lot of
it comes from addiction.

Cristina: Honestly, we’re just two kids trying to make it work. Trying
to make our own lives work, our relationship work, and just trying to
make it. I don’t want to call my parents until I have good news. They’re
just waiting to see if this was a good choice on my part or not.

Ben: Yeah, I’d rather wait for good news than to call and ask for help.
My birthday is in two days, and I know my dad is wanting to hear from me.

Cristina: You gotta call.

Ben: Yeah I know. I’ll call him I guess.

Cristina: He’s avoiding it; he avoids it like the plague.

Ben: It is kinda fun going through a coming of age story when you’re
thirty; it’s a great big adventure out here.

Cristina: Yeah, we would be struggling anywhere as much as we struggle
here, but I feel like we’re actually moving toward something new.
Everyday is a new promise.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


      Get Involved

https://medium.com/stories-behind-the-fog/get-involved-3a23acdd6b12
<https://medium.com/stories-behind-the-fog/get-involved-3a23acdd6b12#.vueu7c38n>

Homeless
<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/tagged/homeless?source=post>Lavamae
<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/tagged/lavamae?source=post>Stories
Behind The Fog
<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/tagged/stories-behind-the-fog?source=post>Moses
Movie
<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/tagged/moses-movie?source=post>Stories
<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/tagged/stories?source=post>
22
#
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
Go to the profile of stories behind the fog

<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/@storiesbehindthefog?source=footer_card>


      stories behind the fog
      <https://storiesbehindthefog.com/@storiesbehindthefog>

Humanizing homelessness in San Francisco. One story at a time. Soon to
be published in a book.

#
Follow
Stories Behind The Fog

<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/?source=footer_card>


      Stories Behind The Fog
      <https://storiesbehindthefog.com/?source=footer_card>

Humanizing homelessness in San Francisco. One story at a time. Soon to
be published in a book.

<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/how-to-write-social-impact-stories-people-cant-resist-4256d5af36c1?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
More from Stories Behind The Fog
How to write Social Impact Stories People can’t Resist

<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/how-to-write-social-impact-stories-people-cant-resist-4256d5af36c1?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
Go to the profile of Arjanna van der Plas

<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/@arjannavanderplas>
Arjanna van der Plas
<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/@arjannavanderplas?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------0-41>
12
<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/being-in-incarceration-was-the-best-thing-for-me-i-had-structure-which-was-what-i-needed-bd5e9b829261?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Also tagged Stories Behind The Fog
“Being in incarceration was the best thing for me, I had structure,
which was what I needed.”

<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/being-in-incarceration-was-the-best-thing-for-me-i-had-structure-which-was-what-i-needed-bd5e9b829261?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
Go to the profile of stories behind the fog

<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/@storiesbehindthefog>
stories behind the fog
<https://storiesbehindthefog.com/@storiesbehindthefog?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------1-43>
6
<https://medium.com/matter/no-no-we-should-not-6c32ffa14e34?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-40>
Related reads
Ban Sports: Are You Insane?!

<https://medium.com/matter/no-no-we-should-not-6c32ffa14e34?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-40>
Go to the profile of Jamie O’Grady

<https://medium.com/@JamieOGrady>
Jamie O’Grady
<https://medium.com/@JamieOGrady?source=placement_card_footer_grid---------2-40>
17
Responses
Write a response…
Unknown user
No responses yet
Show all responses

×

Don’t miss stories behind the fog’s next story
BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing
stories behind the fogstories behind the fog
